News - Date: 24 November 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 235 Nineteen Bible students received qualifications for different levels of the church ministry programme during an event at the Pentecostal Holiness Church at Manavhela village. The programs are offered by the Faith Bible College in South Africa, which has mother offices in America. The Faith Bible College in South Africa's dean, Prof Ronnie Moodley, encouraged graduates to lead by example in the communities in which they would find themselves preaching the Word of God. “Our duty is to educate you in the Word of God, so that you may be incorruptible and sound preachers,” he said in his keynote address. He then stated that people ought to be considerate in such a way that one became his brother's keeper. “In the Bible, Cain missed an opportunity to talk with God and hear what he had to say,” he said. “Instead, he said he was not his brother's keeper.” A hip-hop artist who had travelled the world to enrich his talent, Humbulani “N-1” Murulane, was among the graduates and people who motivated the youths during the ceremony. “I came out of the harsh streets of Cape Town's thug life, where one's life was influenced by bad habits of taking all the wrong choices, but today I devote my time to studying the Word of God,” N-1 said. “I want to infuse God's Word into my singing talent, so that my gift can be meaningful.” The Faith Bible College in South Africa's dean, Prof Ronnie Moodley (right) welcomes a graduate, Humbulani “N-1” Murulane, a hip-hop artist.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com