News - Date: 19 November 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 518 The premier of Limpopo, Mr Stanley Mathabatha, said his government would not hesitate to act against officials and politicians implicated in the looting of the VBS bank. “We cannot just go out and start charging people without tangible evidence. We have commissioned a forensic investigation that will present its findings and report at the end of this month (November). After this report with all the facts and evidence of who did what is released, heads will then roll.” The premier was addressing community members and stakeholders during his Limpopo Province executive committee imbizo that was held at Masisi Community Hall in Ward 12 of Musina Municipality last Friday. Mathabatha was accompanied by several MECs and the mayor of Musina, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope. Representatives from all 12 wards of Musina Municipality were given the opportunity to make their presentations on service delivery. Issues raised in all wards included challenges in water supply, roads, housing, unemployment, shortage of hospitals, clinics and medication, crime, the influx of undocumented foreign nationals and lack of government and municipal satellite offices. Matters resorting under the local municipality were responded to by the local mayor, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, while the MECs responded to all issues that concerned their respective departments. When giving an overall reply, Premier Mathabatha said his government was doing its best to improve the lives of the ordinary citizens. “Despite the challenges of resources, our administration has done well in terms of delivering better services to our people. We are happy that representatives of stakeholders have made positive representations for us to improve service delivery. We are also excited that communities are satisfied with the level of improved service delivery, although there are challenges.  We can all agree that our province is now better than it was in 1994. I will make sure that all issues raised are attended to as a matter of urgency. The relevant departments, district municipality and the local municipality will work tirelessly to resolve your issues.” Muhlope thanked the executive committee for coming to interact with the people of Musina. “This is what we call inclusive democracy, where ordinary people engage directly with their leaders. This imbizo will help to accelerate service delivery in Musina.” Mr Binky Sifake, one of the community representatives who made a presentation during the imbizo, said that they were delighted that they had been afforded the opportunity to talk directly with the premier, MECs and mayor.  Photographed during the Limpopo Provincial Government EXCO imbizo at Masisi are Musina Mayor, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, Thovhele Vho-Hanyani Tshikundamalema and Premier Stanley Mathabatha. One of the community representatives, Mr Binky Sifake, raises service-delivery issues during the Limpopo Provincial Government EXCO imbizo at the Masisi community hall.  Email: