News - Date: 11 November 2018 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 303 The acting regional manager of the Department of Higher Education and training, Mr Frans Ramonyatse, has urged the provincial institutes of higher learning such as universities and TVET Colleges to work together. “Our aim for the conference was fostering collaboration between institutions of higher learning, government with all its spheres and industry. This is reinvigorated by the passionate drive to create a responsive curriculum to improve much-needed skills within the SEZ in Musina-Makhado Corridor. There were intense discussions regarding how best to effectively create this responsive curriculum,” said Ramonyatse. He was speaking on Friday evening during the launch of the annual Limpopo Academic Conference at the Khoroni hotel. About 250 delegates from TVET Colleges and some universities and SETAs attended the two-day conference. According to Ramonyatse, the conference came after a recent successful consultative meeting, led by the Department Economic Development and Tourism (LEDET), which was attended by universities, TVET Colleges and SETAs, in which they endorsed the Musina-Makhado Special Economic Zone (SEZ) Skills Development Plan. According to Ramonyatse, one of the key activities to be undertaken in implementing the SEZ is to develop the required skills of the local communities with the aim of preparing them to participate meaning fully in the project. “We pride ourselves as the region on four public universities, University of Venda, University of South Africa, Tswane University of Technology and University of Limpopo. These public higher-education institutions offer programmes and qualifications leading to the acquisition of medium- to high-level qualifications,” Ramonyatse said. He added that the various Sector Education and Training Authorities (SETAs) continued to play a very crucial role in skills development and needed to be applauded for their support in providing bursaries, learnerships, internships, funding for rural development projects, and promotion of small businesses, especially in the region.   Photographed during the event are, from left to right, the acting vice-chancellor and principal of the University of Venda, Prof Jan Crafford, the acting Limpopo regional manager for the Department of Higher Education and Training, Mr Frans Ramonyatse, the CEO of Vhembe TVET College, Ms Basani Hlekani, LEDET representative Mr Matidzi Rathumbu and TUT Polokwane Campus Manager Dr Walter Tshamano.  Email: