News - Date: 08 November 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 842 The MEC for Public Works and Infrastructure, Mr Jerry Ndou, officially opened the R3,2 million Kutama Tribal offices at Kutama last Friday. He was accompanied by MEC Nandi Ndalane, the chairperson of the House of Traditional Leaders, Kgosi Malesela Dikgale, King Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana, many chiefs around the province and community members. “The launch of this establishment is consistent with our commitment to bring government services closer to the people. We expect this office to bring relief to members of the community who have always had difficulties in accessing government services and information,” Ndou said. He added that the government believed that investments such as the new tribal offices played crucial roles in building sustainable rural communities. “Living in rural communities must never relegate one to a status of second class. This is why government has ensured that these facilities are equipped with the necessary information technology connectivity, in order to ensure that we are able to bridge the division between rural and urban settings,” he said.

He added that the Cabinet had already decided to establish a Department of Traditional Leadership at national level and that it believed that this department would afford traditional leaders and rural communities the opportunity to shape the implementation of a rural development strategy. King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana said that the newly built traditional council offices would strengthen communication between government departments and the community. “As the Mphephu traditional council, we will always ensure that the new offices are well taken care of,” he said.

Thovhele Vele Kutama said that the offices were not for his use alone but also for addressing the issues that were affecting the communities. “We urge our communities to make use of the offices, and we have to regard working together as a method through which we can do more,” said Kutama.  Photographed during the event are, from left to right, Khosi Vele Kutama, Kgosi Malesela Dikgale, King Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana, MEC Jerrey Ndou, MEC Nandi Ndalane, Chief Livhuwani Matsila and Cllr Mavhungu Luruli Ramakhanya.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za