News - Date: 29 November 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 457 “We are currently financing 10 indigent students who are furthering their studies at different institutions of higher learning. The full bursary offers tuition, accommodation, books and meals.” These were the words of the mayor of Musina, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, when she announced the opening of the 2019 Musina Municipality’s mayoral bursary applications last Thursday. Muhlope said the municipality had increased the mayoral bursary budget from the current R1,3million to R1,8million for the next year’s intake. “We have decided to increase the budget after considering the cost of living and the current economic factors. We have also taken a resolution that no child from an indigent family who passed well in all 12 wards of Musina Municipality would stay at home because of lack of funds.” She said she was happy that the mayoral bursary was bearing positive fruits in the educational development of Musina Municipality. “The bursary has so far produced 14 graduates who are working at various institutions around the country. This is a clear indication that the municipality takes education as one of its priority areas. Furthermore, we have been declared a provincial growth point and a Special Economic Zone. All these projects need young people who are educated to be able to take our municipality to the next level..” Muhlope added that the municipality offered employment contracts to graduates after completing their studies. She said the municipality encouraged but did not limit learners to apply for financial assistance in engineering (civil, electrical, mechanical), auditing, financial accounting, economic and business management (tourism, agriculture), public administration, project management, information technology, town planning and environmental sciences. Applications close on 7 December and application forms are available from all municipal offices and respective ward councillors. Enquiries can be directed to Mulalo Ndou at 015 534 6169 or 082 613 6339.  Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlope is calling upon indigent learners to apply for the mayoral bursary.  Email: