News - Date: 19 November 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 294 A brand-new clinic was officially opened at the campus premises at Vhembe TVET College at Makwarela in Sibasa by the Minister of Higher Education, Ms Naledi Pandor. She officially opened the infrastructure that will serve students, college staff and communities around the college last Saturday. During her visit, she also interacted with students during an imbizo held on campus, where they deliberated on several issues pertaining youth health, wellness and careers. Also in attendance were senior local traditional leader Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli, students from the universities of Limpopo and Venda and principals of other TVET Colleges in Limpopo. Pandor was accompanied by Limpopo Health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba. The clinic came about as a result of a partnership between the Higher Education and Training HIV/AIDS Programme and the Limpopo Department of Health. Three of the clinics are operating at Vhembe TVET’s other campuses at Tshisimani, Mavhoyi and Mashamba. Among the services the clinic will provide to students is the testing and screening for HIV, STIs, TB, blood-glucose and blood-pressure measuring and family planning. Speaking during the event, Pandor urged students to take charge of their health by using the facility built for them. Chief Gole Mphaphuli thanked the minister for having brought such a facility to his area, saying it would go a long way in decreasing the prevalence of diseases. The minister and other dignitaries rounded off the program by signing a pledge and taking a walk about the testing sites and the exhibition stalls.  Doing the pledge wall signing are dignitaries led by Higher Education Minister Naledi Pandor. With her in the photograph are, from left to right, MEC Phophi Ramathuba, Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli and Ms Basani Hlekane of Vhembe TVET College. HEAIDS CEO Dr Ramneek Ahluwalia  (right) supervised the signing Students from different institutions attended the imbizo at Vhembe TVET College at Makwarela.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: