News - Date: 09 November 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 641 Residents of Ravele village in the Sinthumule area are still shocked about the murder of the 22-year-old Takalani Tshilamulela last Friday.

Tshilamulela went missing after allegedly receiving a call from the father of her child, who wanted to meet her outside her home last Thursday. According to a statement by the residents, she went outside to meet him shortly after 17:00 on Thursday afternoon and that was the last time that she was seen alive. She and the man then left the house. According to a police statement, her boyfriend, Vhutshilo Mashige (24), arrived back at the house at about midnight. He was accompanied by the police and told the family that Tshilamulela had been kidnapped and forced into a vehicle at gunpoint by three people. The police also told Limpopo Mirror that the girl’s parents had phoned Mashige early on Friday and told him that they were going to report the case to the police. They also alleged that Mashige had switched off his phone while they were still talking. The police spokesperson said that Mashige was supposed to appear in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court next week to answer to a protection order brought by Tshilamulela. Early on Friday morning, Tshilamulela’s parents were alerted by members of the community that they had found the girl’s body in a nearby bush. The body was wrapped in plastic and had no visible wounds. The news of her death spread like wildfire, and within minutes people from the surrounding areas were gathering at the scene of the incident. According to the police, Vhutshilo Mashige is still at large. Limpopo police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said that their investigation into the incident was continuing. “We urge community members to consult or engage third parties like elders and counsellors when faced with problems, to avoid such incidents,” he said. The funeral will be held on Saturday at 06:00 at Ravele.   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za