News - Date: 25 November 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 138 Communities around Madimbo shared ideas on how they could assist the government to fight corruption during an anti-corruption workshop that took place at Madimbo Thusong Centre last week. The event was organized by Government Communication and Information System (GCIS). Institutions such as the Directorate for Priority Crimes Investigation (Hawks), National Prosecutions Authority (NPA), Public Service Commission (PSC), the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) and South Africa Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) led the panel discussion on their roles in addressing the scourge of corruption within the country. The discussion aimed to educate communities about the consequences of corruption and ways of fighting and reporting perpetrators to the law-enforcement agencies. Hawks Limpopo anti-corruption commander Col Desmond Alexander told community members and stakeholders how corruption emanated. “Corruption happens between two parties, the corrupter and receiver. The two of them are on the wrong side of the law and these actions should be condemned at all costs. We are worried about cases of motorists who pay bribes to traffic officers after violating road regulations. The fight of corruption needs community members to stop paying bribes in order to get some benefits.” Headman Solomon Nduvheni of the Rambuda royal house told community members to refrain from requesting traditional leaders to confirm proof of residence for foreign nationals. “As a traditional leader, sometimes it might be very difficult to know every child born in a specific village. Any traditional leader who confirms proof of residence for an illegal foreign national is corrupt and should be reported to the police.” Mr André Weideman of the NPA highlighted the progress made in relation to the cases of corruption around the Musina area. “We are not going to leave any stone unturned. Up to so far, we have recorded huge progress in terms of dealing with corruption cases in the Musina area. We urge community members and stakeholders to assist us in cracking corruption cases because government is losing a lot of money due to these corrupt activities.”  Part of the stakeholders who attended the event. Headman Solomon Nduvheni.  Email: