News - Date: 15 November 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 533 Residents of Budeli, Tshikhudini, Mphego and other nearby villages around Madzivhandila Agricultural College are up in arms about the college. The residents, mostly unemployed youths, protested on Monday that the college is not giving jobs and other opportunities to locals. As early as 06:00, youths and other unemployed residents gathered at the main gate of the college at Ha-Budeli and barred all from entering the campus. They demanded to be addressed by the college management. The police arrived, but still no entry was allowed. Central to their dispute is the issue of employment and tenders, for which they say the college never considers them. Community leader Mr Humbulani Nedididi said the college was built in their area many years ago but was not benefiting them at all. He said they had, as a community, tried to set up a committee over the years to work together with the college management, but that had not worked as they were not called to meetings and the college was doing things unilaterally. "This college has failed us big time. We have many unemployed people here. We have many people with registered companies, and when there is work here, they are overlooked, and outside people benefit.” He added that some EPWP posts ran for a specific period and, presently, 10 locals were employed, but they had not been paid for two months. “We find this unacceptable and are of the view that these be made permanent posts, so that these people can fend for their families," said Nedididi. He further said the last straw was recently when seven cleaning posts, which they had hoped would be occupied by locals, became available. "We pleaded with the management to give us only three posts as a community, but that was not considered. Instead, they hired people from very far, even though these posts do not require special skills. We are angry as a community, and that is the reason we are here at the gate to get a hearing from management," said Nedididi. Mr Selby Makgatho, spokesperson of the Department of Agriculture in Limpopo, confirmed that some concerns had surfaced around the employment of locals at the college. "This is not a village college, but a provincial college where all residents of this province stand a chance when it comes to employment and other opportunities. When posts become available, they are advertised, and everybody can apply. We condemn the mentality that a particular group or tribe should benefit from the college as it belongs the residents of the province," said Makgatho. He further indicated that they were worried about the timing of the protest when students were busy with their final examinations.  Angry residents barricaded the main entrance to the college on Monday. They demanded that they be considered when it came to jobs and tenders.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: