News - Date: 23 November 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 199 By Tafadzwa Nhundu As part of Ridgeway College in Louis Trichardt’s annual work week for students, Form 3 student Tafadzwa Nhundu tried her hand at journalism at the Limpopo Mirror. With the year’s final exams finishing up, many Form 5 (matric) students are contemplating what to do with all their knowledge next year. Tafadzwa decided to go speak to a couple of her Form 5 friends and find out what they have planned. Many of them have ambitious plans. Tondi Ramabulana (18) is planning to go to Stellenbosch University. As an avid athlete, she would like to study sports science, which is why she chose this university. After her studies, she would like to sponsor the less privileged with sports equipment and money to improve their lifestyles. Physics and biology boffin Silelo Sioga (19) will be studying with the help of a Sumbandila Scholarship. He is a really hardworking young man, focused on achieving his goals. He is looking forward to studying medicine at the University of Pretoria as he does not like to see people suffer. Eighteen-year-old Mutshidzi Ramavhuya, college head girl for 2018, will also be studying with the help of the Sumbandila Scholarship. She said that without the help she was being offered, she would not be the person she was today. Mutshidzi added that she would like to show her gratitude for the help by passing matric with flying colours. Her aim is to go to the University of Johannesburg to study engineering and help other children whose parents cannot afford to keep them in school, to better their lives. Top business studies student Mpho Muleya is a young lady who has expectations of going to study at the University of Spain. The 19-year-old would like to study business management. She chose Spain because she believes that country has a higher quality of education than South Africa. Mpho would love to manage and run her own business in a sustainable way and donate money to charity homes. Eighteen-year-old Leonora Nyoni likes to debate things and is very good at giving facts. With this talent, she strongly believes that she can study law at the University of Limpopo and become a highly qualified lawyer. Leonora chose this career because she is willing to fight cases for those people unable to fight for themselves.  Tondi Ramabulana (18). Photo supplied. Leonora Nyoni (18). Photo supplied. Mpho Muleya (19). Photo supplied. Mtshidzi Ramavhuya (18). Photo supplied. Silelo Sioga (19). Photo supplied.  Email: