News - Date: 24 November 2018 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 84 The Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Mr Bulelani Magwanishe, and the Deputy Minister of Small Business Development, Mr Cassel Mathale, have expressed their commitment to taking small businesses based in Vhembe forward through the implementation of the resolutions adopted at the two-day Vhembe SMME Summit in Thohoyandou last week. They hosted the summit with the executive mayor of the Vhembe District Municipality (VDM), Cllr Florence Radzilani. The resolutions of the summit were contained in a declaration that was adopted at the end of the summit. The theme of the summit was Building local economy through SMME development. More than 800 entrepreneurs from the Thulamela, Collins Chabane, Makhado and Musina local municipalities attended the summit. “We spent the past two days exchanging ideas and deliberating on critical issues that affect the development and sustainability of our small businesses and co-operatives. It was worth noting that, instead of dwelling on the challenges, the entrepreneurs themselves came up with innovative ideas and the ways and means of taking their businesses to the next level with support from government,” said Mathale. He added that government was committed to providing an environment for the small businesses to thrive, but also to provide all the necessary support that they require. This includes land, financial and non-financial support, access to markets, both national and international, as well as the necessary infrastructure. “This summit has already proven what a partnership compromising all spheres of government and their entities can achieve,” he added In the declaration, the delegates described the summit as a notable milestone and an important platform that would assist small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) to contribute meaningfully in achieving the goals and objectives of the country’s Vision 2030 for sustainable development and a brighter future. They noted, however, that the successful implementation of the outcomes of the summit would require new partnerships among the key drivers of the economy, including the departments of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, finance, water and sanitation, as well as engagements with the local communities and entrepreneurs. The participants also called for an integrated approach to the implementation of government policy affecting the SMME sector as well as the development of the district’s information- and communication-technology strategy. The summit also welcomed the announcement made by Magwanishe that the Department of Trade and Industry will provide training to all the local economic development managers in the VDM, as well as a two-week training of entrepreneurs under the department’s National Exporter Development Programme.   Cllr Florence Radzilani, flanked by Mr Cassel Mathale (left) and Mr Bulelani Magwanishe, photographed shortly before the start of the Vhembe SMME summit in the Thohoyandou Town Hall.  Email: