News - Date: 30 November 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1310 Mbilwi Secondary School has become synonymous with matrics who consistently produce good-quality results over the years. The school has won countless competitions and even the principal, Mr Cedrick Lidzhade, won himself the first ever Principal of the Year award in Limpopo. In line with its winning tradition, the school has produced yet another winner, Grade 11 learner Tenda Singo (17) of Thohoyandou Block G. She recently won the VOOV#100k Schools Challenge, which saw her walk away with R100,000 in cash. The prize will be split in two, with Singo taking home R50 000 and her school getting R50 000. Mini video-making platform VOOV recently challenged millions of South African pupils from primary school to high school to show how they live their best life in school. To win the competition, Singo uploaded a VOOV app and used a 14-second traditional dance video, which received the most likes and views. She said that she would save the money for her tertiary studies. "I am so excited. I could not believe it when I was told that I had won the prize. I will use the prize to realize my dream." Mr Lidzhade could not hide his excitement. "We are very proud of her. She has put our school on the national map, and with the money she had won for the school, we will utilise it in some of the activities here at the school." VOOV's Tramayne Monaghan said the objective of the challenge was to utilise the app's filters, effects and music to create a video showing their best life in school. “Today, our children are on their mobiles 24/7. As VOOV, we wanted to create a challenge that gave pupils the chance not to just win something for themselves, but also to win something for their school.” He added that they were happy for the opportunity for Tenda to give back to her school, ”therefore enriching more than one student's life in the area,” said Monaghan. The VOOV app is available for download on Android or IOS. Proud winner Tenda Singo is being congratulated by school principal Cedrick Lidzhade.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: