News - Date: 22 November 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 267 “I urge you to focus on studying and writing examinations in full force, so that you will produce good results. Never allow any person to deceive you by saying that education is not important in life.” The charismatic speaker and author, Onkarabile Mokoto, addressed hundreds of youths during the Charity Motivation Drive that was held at the Elim Mall on Saturday. This was a charitable and motivational initiative by RJ Media Events, in partnership with Twin City Elim Mall. “I would like to enforce the fact that education and a positive lifestyle are the cornerstones of a youth's life,” said the director of RJ Media Events, Ms Nkhensani Khadijah Mogotsi. “A good life that you dream about – be it good cars and houses – will all come through your skills and talents.” As the event's host, Mogotsi said that the event added value to the youths who attended. “We are in an era where some youths tend to commit suicide upon realising that they had failed a grade, or Grade 12 in particular. Other youths fail a grade not because they didn't grasp the curricular or content, it's just because of stress related to exams." Some of the speakers and life coaches who attended to the learners' needs included Hlamalani Hlamie Maboko, who tackled the topic of stress and fatigue during examination time; Apostle Lucky Mpungose from Agapé Chief Mountain International and Mr Allan Vukosi Baloyi, chairman of the Elim Waterval Foundation, who addressed them on commitment and excellence. During the event, RJ Media Events handed stationery and sanitary towels to learners. A great line-up of musicians, comedians and poets all entertained the youths.  Ms Nkhensani Khadijah Mogotsi distributes some stationery.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com