News - Date: 25 November 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 233 The power outage of two days in Thohoyandou has become a source of frustration and has caused huge losses to businesses in the town. The outage, allegedly caused by a faulty substation in Thohoyandou, left the whole town in the dark for a part of Sunday and the whole of Monday and Tuesday. This was a bitter pill to swallow for business owners and customers. With the sweltering heat, people in the area were also on the receiving end as they had to endure the heat as air conditioners were not working. A supermarket owner in Thohoyandou said the power cuts had  dealt them a huge blow. “We lost a lot of business because of the outage, but as if this was not enough, we also lost very valuable information when our shop's computer system crashed. This on-and-off thing is not good, and as we speak now, we are still struggling to recover the lost information," he said A butcher in town said most his stock was affected because of the electricity problem. "The outage took us by surprise, and we were forced to take most of the stock to our other shop. If we did not have plan B, we would be talking of massive losses today," said the butcher, who preferred to remain anonymous. Many shop owners were apparently caught unawares, without a plan B. The deputy chairperson of the local business forum, Mr Eddie Singo, said they were not impressed at all by what Eskom was doing in Thohoyandou. "Day in and day out we are seeing these cuts, and most of our businesses are suffering because of this. We are busy compiling statistics of the affected areas and we will be engaging with Eskom. Here we are talking of a big company that is paying its executives millions but failing to render service to its clients," said Singo. He further indicated that many of their members suffered during the two-day electricity outage as they did not have the resources such as standby generators, like the big businesses. Eskom's Mr Shadrack Munyagane confirmed the outage, saying they were repairing a substation in the area.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: