News - Date: 19 November 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 314 A 22-year-old B-Comm student and model, Phoebe Mphahlele, has just been selected as a finalist in the Miss Eagle South Africa 2018. Phoebe was recently on the semi-finalist list of the prestigious pageant and has now managed to reach the final stage. This young woman had fallen in love with modelling at an early age and she started participating in pageants when her parents dissuaded her from entering the modelling world before she could complete her Grade 12. “They thought I would lose focus on my studies, and so I had to finish my matric first, after which I bounced into modelling with a bang after a five-year break,” she stated. “Entering Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 has been exciting because this has also given me self-confidence as I can confidently speak in front of a huge crowd of people.” Miss Eagle South Africa is a women-empowerment contest, using the Beauty with Brains and Purpose platform to empower young women to grow and develop themselves by making a positive impact in their communities. “I take on the hardships of life as eye openers and strength builders,” she said. “I enjoy cooking, watching movies and, recently, reading poetry. Life itself is a long story that unfolds each day as we wake up in the morning and live. Even our darkest or saddest times make good headlines at the end of the day because we emerge as strong persons after every dark phase or tunnel.” This resident of Mphahlele village is among 15 contestants from Limpopo who are vying for the Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 crown. The gala dinner takes places at the Suncoast Casino in Durban on 17 December, where an Empress SA will be crowned. “Since Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 is a points-based contest, in order for me to win the contest for the Limpopo leg, I have to get the highest points, compared to other finalists from the province,” she said. “If I become the Limpopo winner, I go to represent the province in the national finals. The winner of each province will be crowned Her Majesty the Queen.” To boost Phoebe's chances of winning, vote for her by sending an SMS “Phoebe” to 35334 at R3 per SMS.  Phoebe Mphahlele is confident that she will win the Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 title.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com