News - Date: 14 June 2018 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 120 The latest increase in fuel prices has a huge effect on local entrepreneurs and many of them are unsure where they will get the extra money to cover the overall increase in the cost of goods. The price of petrol went up by a hefty 82 cents last Wednesday and the price of diesel went up by 87 cents. A businesswoman, Ms Netshedzo Sadiki from Nithan Events and Catering, said that the increase in fuel prices had affected her business in a bad way. Her company deals mostly with catering and events planning. “In this business of planning events we travel a lot, because we cater for people in different places. The new prices of fuel may force us to increase our prices and our customers will suffer,” she said. Mangalani Mashau, who uses his mini truck to transport school children, said that the increase in fuel prices will affect all commuters. “If I increase my price due to the high petrol price, everyone will be affected, from the pupils to the parents,” he said. A motor mechanic, Khumbelo Ramabulana, said he uses his car to go buy car parts for his customers and now he has to increase his prices because his expenses have gone up. “I am even thinking of using public transport to go and buy car parts. Petrol is expensive and the parts suppliers will also increase their prices,” he said. Phathutshedzo Ramabulana, a member of the South African Youth Against Crime NPO, said that the fuel price increase would also affect his NPO. He explained that he uses his car to transport young people to different areas. “As a crime-fighting NPO that deals with the youth, this month will be our busiest period of the year, because it is Youth Month. We would want to travel to different places, but the high cost of fuel will make it difficult,” he said. Mangalani Mashau said that the sudden rise in fuel prices will affect everyone. Ms Netshedzo Sadiki said that the increase in the petrol price had affected her business in a bad way. Phathutshedzo Ramabulana said that the fuel price increase would affect his NPO as he used his car to transport young people. Khumbelo Ramabulana said he used his car to go buy car parts for his customers and now he had to increase his prices.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com