News - Date: 10 June 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 248 Schools are about to close for the winter season and it is that time of the year again when boys will be going to the mountains for circumcision ceremonies. The age-old tradition has been practiced for many decades in the African communities, but according to sources, it has been infiltrated in some areas by money mongers who do not care about life. In provinces like the Eastern Cape many deaths are reported each year during the circumcision period. Limpopo, however, has carried the tradition with dignity and the culture is respected in this part of the world. Like in previous years, the province is busy preparing for this very important time of the year. Limpopo House of Traditional Leaders chairperson, Kgoshi Malesela Dikgale said preparations are at a very advanced stage and that they have issued permits to a record number of applicants who qualify to run the schools. “We are fully prepared for the season and we will not leave anything to chance. Here we are dealing with lives of initiates and what we are going to do is hold a workshop where we are going to give an insight on how things should be done. We have a record number of 455 registered school owners at this stage, as compared to 269 we had last year,” he said. Dikgale said that they are also concerned about the fatalities in provinces like the Eastern Cape where many boys lose their lives during this time. He further indicated that they had meetings with traditional leaders from that side, looking at ways that injuries could be prevented. He sounded a warning to the unregistered school owners not to take chances as they would be identified and punished. Famous traditional surgeon, Mr Mashudu Tshikororo who hosted 21 incident free and very successful schools since 1996, said that they are ready for the season. They are just waiting for the annual workshop, where they would be informed on how things would run this year. He will have his school at Vyeboom in the Vuwani area. The circumcision schools season is open again. Here young initiates are welcomed home after a stay in the bush.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: