News - Date: 21 June 2018 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 866 The executive mayor of Vhembe, Cllr Florence Radzilani, is vying for a top position in the up-coming ANC conference to be held today (Friday) and tomorrow in Polokwane. Radzilani, who is a provincial executive member of the ANC, will compete against Mr Jerry Ndou, the MEC for Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs, for the position of deputy provincial chairperson of the party. Born and bred in Ha-Masakona village, Radzilani served in different structures of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL).  She was a regional secretary of the ANCYL in Vhembe, deputy secretary of the ANC in Vhembe, chairperson of the ANC Women's League (ANCWL) in Vhembe in 2010, deputy secretary of the ANC Limpopo in 2011, PEC member of the ANC Limpopo in 2014, an elected member of SALGA in 2016 and elected as executive mayor of Vhembe in 2016, the position she still occupies now. Radzilani started her primary education at Mawela Primary and passed her matric at Tshinanga Secondary School. She obtained her BA degree at Univen, her Higher Education Diploma at the then University of the North, a Municipal Governance Diploma from Rand Afrikaans University, an honours degree in Public Administration from the University of Limpopo and a qualification in executive leadership management from the University of Pretoria. In 2000, she was elected councillor for the Makhado Local Municipality and was full-time councillor responsible for community services from 2000 until May 2006. In 2006, she was appointment as deputy manager in the Office of the Premier until August 2007. From 2007 to 2011, she was appointed MMC for Technical Services in Vhembe.  From 2011 until 2012, she was appointed as the executive mayor of Vhembe. In 2012 she was appointed as member of Limpopo legislature and between 2012 and 2013, she was appointed MEC for Safety, Security and Liaison in Limpopo until 2015. Meanwhile, the current premier, Mr Stan Mathabatha, is tipped to retain his position as the chairperson, while Messrs Lehlogonolo Masoga, Basikop Makamu and Soviet Lekganyane are contesting for the position of secretary. Two MECs, Ms Makoma Makgoropetje and Dr Phophi Ramathuba, are vying for the position of deputy secretary. Former secretary Mr Nocks Seabi and MEC Seaparo Sekoati will battle it out for the position of provincial treasurer.  The executive mayor of Vhembe, Cllr Florence Radzilani.  Email: