News - Date: 29 June 2018 Written by: Tracy Ngobeni / Viewed: 209 De Beers’ Venetia Mine hosted a debate competition between 11 schools at a career-guidance day held in Musina and at the Blouberg-Makgato village last Thursday and Friday. The participating schools were asked to debate the advantages and disadvantages of mining in the province, and the orators has everything to fight for as R75 000 was up for grabs for the winning schools to sponsor a community or school project. The three winning schools over the two-day period were Eric Louw High School, Renaissance Secondary and Masoka Secondary Schools. Each school won R25 000. De Beers Consolidated Mines Enterprise and Supplier Development senior commercial manager Mr Gregory Peterson said that the purpose of the debate was for the children to gain full knowledge of the mining industry. "We did this for the children to go and do more research about mining and its pros and cons," said Peterson. An entrepreneur and the founder of four radio stations and MSG Afrika Holdings, Mr Siphiwe Mdlalose, encouraged the youth always to believe in themselves and set goals that will help them in the future. "You are not a mistake. There is a purpose set for you and you need to fulfil it. Out of 100 learners, only 50 will make it to Grade 12. Out of the 40% of unemployed youths, most end up in jail,” said Mdlalose. Mdlalose urged young people to take full responsibility for themselves, to overcome their fears and to stop treating the world as if it owed them something. Vutlhari Dhliwayo, a Grade 11 pupil at Renaissance Secondary, said that she was happy that the money would help build a science laboratory. "Even though we were given little time to prepare, I am happy that this money will help our science learners to learn what we see," said Dhliwayo. Munadia Islam, a Grade 11 pupil at Eric Louw High School, said the money would help with renovations at the school. The team from Masoka was just as excited about their R25 000 prize money, indicating that it would go to a good cause.  The winning team from Eric Louw High School. From left to right are the assistant general manager of Venetia Mine, Mr Hendrick Matjila, Munadia Islam, Ms Letitia de Jager (teacher at Eric Louw), Erik Limbach, Ms Rina Fourie (Eric Louw coach) and Mr Siphiwe Mdlalose. The winning team of Renaissance Secondary. From left to right are the assistant general manager of Venetia Mine, Mr Hendrick Matjila, Vutlharhi Dlhiwayo, Mathevula Marvelous, Mudumani Khazamula and Siphiwe Mdlalose. Also receiving R25 000 in prize money was the winning team from Masoka Secondary School. From left to right are Edward Kusata, Marwala Lizzy, Siphiwe Mdlalose, Raphiri Daisy and Monyebodi Tlou.  Email: chabalalan98@gmail.com