News - Date: 22 June 2018 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 509 The chief executive officer of SANParks, Mr Fundisile Mketeni, during his official visit to Kruger this week found himself having to help Rangers who chased and apprehended three suspected rhino poachers on Wednesday in the Tshokwane section of the Kruger National Park (KNP). According to a SANParks press release, Mketeni was en route to observe the western boundary between the KNP and communities, when the helicopter he was flying in was requested to assist rangers on the ground who were pursuing a group of suspected poachers. SANParks confirmed that the suspects were ultimately arrested with the help of the K9, a fixed wing airplane, and the helicopter the CEO was flying in. “The suspects were found in possession of a heavy calibre hunting rifle, ammunition, poaching equipment, and a fresh pair of rhino horns,” the statement read. Speaking of his experience, Mketeni said it was sad to see the carcass of a beautiful and magnificent species, that had been roaming the wild areas of the KNP hours earlier, killed because of greed and criminality. “It was a privilege to work alongside the dedicated team of rangers and air wing colleagues, and to participate in the apprehension of these suspects who have no regard for our laws and act with impunity. We hope the justice department metes out the toughest sentence possible if found guilty, so as to send a message to others with similar intentions. I salute our rangers and pilots for their bravery and dedication, we hope you continue inspiring us with your activities of protecting our fauna and flora,” said Mketeni.   Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za