News - Date: 09 June 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 47 Sheshe Primary School in the far-flung Sheshe village outside Thohoyandou is one of the disadvantaged schools in the Vhembe District. With an enrolment of more than 130 pupils, the school still lacks some of the resources that would make the environment conducive to learning and teaching. At the school, many of the learners had no chairs and tables, but all this is now history. On Friday, the pupils received 40 chairs and 20 tables, all thanks to a businessman,Mr Azwinndini Maphangwa of Lebjoe Business Enterprise. He and his staff arrived at the school with a truckload of the much-needed resources. The humble businessman is not new to giving as he has done so at many schools and institutions countrywide. In handing over the tables and chairs, Maphangwa said it was during a visit to the school that he came to learn about the plight of the learners. "I saw it myself - learners sitting and writing on the floor. I was very touched and decided there and then to help. As a company, we know the future of this country is in the hands of its youth and that they have to be educated to be responsible future leaders.” School principal Mr Robert Mukhuba could not hide his excitement. "We are a school in need, but what businessman Maphangwa did for us will go a long way in redeeming the dignity of the children," he said. He added that the gesture would boost the morale of the learners and expressed the hope they will henceforth perform better in class. Happy Sheshe Primary School learners, the executive director of Lebjoe Business Enterprises, Mr Azwinndini Maphangwa (standing left), the principal, Mr Robert Mukhuba (fourth from left) and other guests show the donated tables during the handover.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: