News - Date: 01 June 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 218 The University of Venda (Univen) celebrated Africa Day at the University’s Freedom Square last Wednesday.

The celebration was held under the theme Africanization. During the celebration, Univen students and staff members showcased their love for the African culture through their traditional attire, dramas, cultural group performances and poems.

A local artist, Mrs Naledzani Netshirembe, rendered poems to the audience, while Ms Mercy Masakona, a PhD candidate in the African Studies Department, who specialises in music, gave the audience a taste of African songs.

The acting vice-chancellor, Prof Jan Crafford, said that science had proved that the African continent was the cradle of humankind and the place where humans discovered the utility of fire and the beauty of art. He said that young people were the hope of the continent and could take the continent to a freer and more equal world, free of the indignity of poverty and the scourge of oppression.

He encouraged women to embrace their natural beauty and not hide their African beauty under weaves and make-up. "Stay united as the youth of Africa," he said.

Dr Chris Ngwenya, lecturer in the School of Human and Social Sciences, expressed the opinion that Africa’s exotic races had always identified themselves with their countries of origin and they never wished to be considered as Africans. He said Africa had always been identified as socially and economically backward and politically exploited by black masses. He indicated, however, that the term had acquired a much wider meaning since Africa became politically independent. Mrs Naledzani Netshirembe renders a poem during the  celebrations. A dedicated group that made the event possible and successful  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: