News - Date: 02 June 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 251 Makhado Municipality's mayor, Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi, encouraged the students of the Mavhoi TVET college students to get tested for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), to know their status and take care of themselves and those they love and care about.

Sinyosi addressed the students at an STI-awareness campaign at the college a fortnight ago. "As the municipality, we are concerned about the increasing number of young people who are HIV positive. HIV/AIDS is one of the biggest challenges we face as a country. South Africa has one of the fastest growing rates of infection in the world."

Sinyosi said the municipality must ensure that all planning and projects take account of HIV/Aids and its consequences. "Government, together with civil society and other organisations, has developed a response to the AIDS crisis, but without a coherent and collective approach at local level, their efforts will not achieve as much as it could. Our integrated development plans must deal with the issues around poverty and unemployment and lack of basic services that propel the rapid spread of HIV and AIDS," Sinyosi added.

She also said that the municipality was well placed to play a coordinating and facilitating role that was needed to make sure that partnerships were built to bring prevention and care programmes to every community affected by HIV and Aids. “We are working closely with other local partners to realise the objective of the national campaign, which is guided by the theme Let our actions count - it is my right to know my status - prevention is my responsibility."

Sinyosi said the communities were expecting a lot from the students and therefore they could not disappoint them. "You must remember that, as students, you are the hope of your families and the future of our communities alike. Our TVET colleges are expected to produce artisans, engineers and professionals across all occupations and trades who must help government improve the lives of all South Africans," Sinyosi added.

The students were advised to stop abusing alcohol and drugs. "You must stop having unsafe relationships with the so-called blessers. You must love and respect yourselves because, as government, we care," Sinyosi said. Mavhoi TVET college students were encouraged to get tested and know their status Mayor Shonisani Sinyosi.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: