News - Date: 27 June 2018 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 424 The seven suspects who were arrested at the Beit Bridge border post for the possession of illegal explosives last Thursday evening, all appeared in the Musina Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Their arrest follows a joint operation by various police units at the border and from Musina. At the time, provincial police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said that the seven suspects had been apprehended after their suspicious behaviour caught the police’s attention and their vehicle was stopped and searched. During the search, 50 fused explosive caps and 10 blasting cartridges were confiscated. “The origin of these explosives is still being determined, although it is believed that this might be part of a bigger syndicate,” said Ngoepe. He said that it was suspected that the explosives were destined to be used in business and armed robberies where safes were to be blown up. “But the ongoing police investigations will tell,” said Ngoepe. The suspects were identified as Simelinkosi Jubane (36), Bhekusiye Mbatha (38), Benjamin Ndlovu (36), Prosper Mhlongo (49), Zanele Moyo (35), Rulph Hlongwani (32) and Milton Ndlovu (31). They were all denied bail during their court appearance and their case was postponed until 4 July for further police investigation. Shortly after their arrest at the border, the police’s acting provincial commissioner, Major General Jan Scheepers, applauded the police units for their sterling job in arresting the suspects. “The commitment of the men and women in blue continues yielding results in eliminating explosives that are commonly utilised during said crime categories. This is a sign to the criminals out there that no stone will be left unturned in Limpopo in dealing head-on with any violent crime, including the trio-crimes,” said Scheepers.  During the search, 50 fused explosive caps and 10 blasting cartridges were confiscated.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za