News - Date: 29 June 2018 Written by: Wilson Dzebu / Viewed: 209 The mayor of Musina, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, urged young people to take education seriously and not involve themselves in the abuse of alcohol and drugs. She was addressing young people at a special event held at the new Nancefield Community Hall last week. “Alcohol and drugs have many negative effects on a person’s life. The physical damage and mental disorders caused by drug and alcohol abuse are irreversible. We have witnessed many lives that were destroyed because of alcohol and drugs. It is not a secret that drugs like nyaope, cocaine, dagga, crack, heroin and mandrax are openly sold to our community members, and worse – even in school yards.” Muhlope added that drug lords are community and family members who should be exposed. “We cannot allow our municipality to become a paradise of drug lords. What type of future generation are we creating if we don’t stand up and say no to drugs? My humble request is that we work closely with all community structures and the police to eliminate this demon of alcohol and drug abuse in our community.” The mayor said the youth of today had a completely different struggle of substance abuse, the fight for economic emancipation, access to quality education, unemployment and HIV/Aids. She said the municipality prided itself on the youth who continued to make Musina proud. "We are very proud of Khomotso Masianuga, the only netball player from Musina and Vhembe District who, since 2003, plays for the Limpopo Baobabs. This is the netball team that plays in the Brutal Fruit Premier League that competes with 10 other teams across South Africa. In simple terms, this league is equivalent to the Premier Soccer League in football.  We are also proud of Elton Kapinga, who plays for the NFD soccer team, Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila. Elton is not an average player. He won the Player’s Player of the Season prize during his team’s awards ceremony in Thohoyandou." She added that Sailor Mudau and Thembisani Nevhulamba were some of the engines that propelled Black Leopards to its success and they were from Musina. “We also have Ndivhuwo Ravhuhali, a dribbling wizard from our municipality, who plays for Polokwane City.” She encouraged deserving young people from indigent families to apply for the mayoral bursary to further their studies. “As Musina Municipality, we have committed that there will be no children from poor families who will not further their studies due to a shortage of funds.” Some of the young people who attended the youth event at the new Nancefield Community Hall.  Email: