News - Date: 24 June 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 127 The 80-year-old Dr Muthuphei Rufus Ndou published his third book, Gospel and Culture with respect to the Vhavenda from 1863-1928  - A Missiological Perspective, early this year. The book is his doctorate thesis, which was approved by the University of Pretoria in 2000. It chronicles the coming of Christianity to Venda, where the Vhavenda people believed in Nwali as their god. In the book, it is stated that the people in the Sahara led a religious life long before the dawn of Christian religion. “The traditional religion imbued their faith in such a way that their daily lives were controlled by religious practices and customs,” he wrote. “It is therefore maintained that the Vhavenda, like the rest of the South African tribes, believed in the existence of a Supreme Being. The manifestation of Nwali in the minds of the Vhavenda, made an indelible mark in their minds.” So, the book traces the traditional beliefs, customs and practices of the Vhavenda in relation to the introduction of Christianity in Venda. The missionaries had to understand the local customs and beliefs, because it all made a large impact on the success of their work. “The ancestors, as members of the departed living, were not worshipped in the sense of the word, but were venerated,” he said. One of the book's highlights is to indicate that the Vhavenda people were in a position to accept Christianity in their culture and without rejecting their traditional religion, which encompasses African norms, customs and culture. In the preface to the book, Prof Mogomme Alpheus Masoga writes: “[This book] adds a critical voice on the debate of missions, missionaries and Africa. Dr Ndou should be congratulated for this bold and important publication, especially at the time when Africans are battling with challenges of decolonialisation and Africanism.” Those interested in the book can contact the author on 082 637 9903. Dr Muthuphei Rufus Ndou published his third book, Gospel and Culture with respect to the Vhavenda from 1863-1928 - A Missiological Perspective, early this year. Dr Muthuphei Rufus Ndou's book, Gospel and Culture with respect to the Vhavenda from 1863-1928 - A Missiological Perspective.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com