News - Date: 18 June 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 415 The Mthombeni family of Njhakanjhaka was left stranded last Sunday after their house was severely damaged by a mysterious fire. The house belongs to Gogo Yimisa Mthombeni. According to eyewitnesses, they only saw a house burning, but did not know where the fire was coming from. There was no one in the house during the incident. “I felt like I was dreaming when I watched helplessly,” the gogo said. “I am now appealling to any good Samaritan to come and assist me. What I want is to have a roof over my head.” Gogo Mthombeni said that all her belongings were burnt inside the house, including her identity document, clothes, blankets and food. "The little food I had for my family was also destroyed by the fire. I really do not know what to do," she said. According to Cllr Dominic Mahlangu of Ward 6 of the Collins Chabane Municipality, he was busy engaging community members to see if they could assist the family with whatever they have. A plea was made to community members and the business sector to assist the family with food, clothes, school uniforms and books. “The gogo wants to repair the house, but it seems as if it will be difficult. She does not have any source of income,” said Mahlangu. The Vhembe District Municipality’s disaster management team also visited the family to assess the damage. The media liaison officer of the Vhembe District Municipality, Mr Moses Shivambu, indicated that through the disaster management unit, the municipality was going to assist the family. Those who want to assist the family can phone Cllr Mahlangu at 082 505 5345.  Gogo Yimisa Mthombeni, whose house was severely damaged by fire.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za