News - Date: 24 June 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 227 In March, a learner at Mutsha Primary School outside Thohoyandou was electrocuted while playing at the school premises. The death of Vhuthuhawe Madala (6) sent shockwaves through the community and became a wakeup call that all was not well at local schools. This incident touched a local resident, Mr Thifhelimbilu Shandukani, a trained electrician and the director of Muthihi Business Enterprise. He soon sprang into action and sought ways how he could assist the schools of the Dzondo Circuit. After doing all the formalities, the department of education gave him the green light and in two months, he and students from the Venda Training Trust covered all 39 primary and secondary schools in the Dzondo Circuit. The last school he assessed for safety was Gwamasenga Secondary School on Wednesday, when he also handed in the full reports of all 39 schools to the circuit manager, Tinyiko Nkuzana. In handing over the reports, Shandukani said his team had uncovered many shocking things at schools that needed urgent attention. "Almost 99% of the schools have faulty devices, which puts learners' lives at risks. We have compiled the report for each school and it is up to the school to do things right and fix the faults. We would have loved to cover the whole district, but as a running business, this is impossible," he said. Shandukani further urged educators and learners to be cautious when using electricity. Dzondo circuit manager Ms Tinyiko Nkuzana thanked Shandukani and his company for assisting the department free of charge. "We are extremely grateful as a department. Our learners will now learn in a safe and conducive environment. We regard this as a great contribution, and you are making a huge difference at our schools and the input you are making is highly appreciated," Nkuzana said. Muthihi Business Enterprise owner Mr Thifhelimbilu Shandukani (left)  hands over the reports to  Dzondo circuit manager Ms Tinyiko Nkuzana, Gwamasenga school principal Ms Khathutshelo Phosiwa and SGB chairperson Mr Mbulaheni Nevhutalu, at the Gwamasenga school premises. Muthihi Business Enterprise director Mr Thifhelimbilu Shandukani (seated second from left), his staff, Dzondo circuit manager Ms Tinyiko Nkuzana (seated fourth from right), Gwamasenga Secondary School principal Ms Khathutshelo Phosiwa (seated second from right) and  members of the SGB during the ceremony at Gwamasenga School.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: