News - Date: 25 June 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 522 A Dzwerani family outside Thohoyandou is living in fear and suspect food poisoning at their home. The family, living at Dzwerani Ha-Khangale, found their porridge changing into different colours while being cooked. The incident, which happened on Saturday, did not only shock the family, but traditional healer Matamba Mamuremi was equally shocked. Mamuremi, the chairperson of the Vhangona Indigenous Traditional Health Practitioners, warned the family not to take the issue lightly, but to seek help from traditional healers. Mamuremi, who is a well-known healer at Tsianda, reacted after a woman complained of porridge with strange and different colours in her house. Insurance company worker Ms Tshavhuyo Regina Mulovhedzi (47) of Dzwerani Ha Khangale said the shocking revelation happened on Saturday morning while she was busy preparing lunch for her family. She said that, some few days earlier, she had brewed a concoction to make sour porridge as it was one of the most favoured in the family. It was brewed in a plastic two-litre container. "I did not notice anything untoward as I emptied some of the stuff into the big pot I was using to cook the porridge. It was only after I had prepared the porridge and was about to dish it up that I noticed some different coloured marks in the pot.” She said that a closer look revealed there was more in the pot than she had first imagined. “Besides the coloured porridge, there were also beans in the pot. It is very strange as we do not have beans in our house," she said. Mulovhedzi further indicated that, out of fear, she took some and showed it to her husband, who was also stunned. She added that she had to cook another meal for the family and had kept the pot full of coloured porridge in the house. "We do not know who is behind this, but we have strong suspicions that someone with harmful intentions is behind it." She is not aware of any enemies “as I only mind my own business. I do not have time to gossip, but who knows, I might be having faceless enemies.” Mamuremi said strange things happened in the Vhembe District, citing strange fires that burnt things without anyone starting those fires, like what had happened at Lwamondo. He said that it could be an evil force at work or a wizard who wanted to harm the family. “She should not relax and think it is over. She must go out and seek help from a traditional healer, who will perform rituals to fortify the home," said Mamuremi. In shock, Ms Regina Mulovhedzi shows the coloured porridge with beans that she found while cooking on Saturday. The pot of coloured and suspected poisoned porridge at the Mulovhedzi home.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: