News - Date: 09 June 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 57 The Musina Municipality mayoral bursary scheme has produced six more graduates, who have successfully completed their degrees at the Universities of Venda and Limpopo. The graduates have been offered employment service contracts and were placed in various sections of the municipality. Ayanda Ndhlovu and Nathaniel Mampuru Kgatla completed BA degrees in Media Studies and International Relations from the University of Venda. Khathutshelo Radamba and Somaya Manda each received a BCom Accounting degree from the University of Limpopo and Evans Matundu completed a BSc Honours degree in biochemistry from the same institution. Emmanuel Mbedzi successfully completed his Public Management Diploma at the Vhembe TVET College. Mayor Mihloti Muhlope said that in the past six years, the municipality has produced a total of 15 graduates who have been placed in various departments within the municipality. “We are presently assisting eleven students with full bursaries, who are furthering their studies in various institutions of higher learning. During our new financial year which starts on 1 July, we will be spending R1,5million to assist students identified from needy families.” She added that education is one of the priority areas of Musina Municipality. “As council, we agreed that no child from Musina will not go to school because of a poor financial background. That is why we are working with our stakeholders to identify indigent learners who are doing well but lack financial resources to further their education.” She said that the importance of education today is very clear. “Good education will provide our children access to our country’s rich and diverse culture, its history and an understanding of their place in the world. Education offers opportunities to gain insight into the best that has been thought, said and done.” One of the graduates, an orphan, Miss Ayanda Ndhlovu, thanked the municipality for coming into her rescue. “I would like to encourage other learners from underprivileged backgrounds to study hard because the municipality is there to assist them. I really don’t have enough words to express my gratitude, because my life has now changed for the better.” Mayor Mihloti Muhlope photographed with one of the graduates of the mayoral bursary scheme, Miss Ayanda Ndhlovu, who completed her media studies degree at the University of Venda.  Email: