News - Date: 22 June 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 110 Huge attention will be on the mayor of Musina, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, as she delivers her State of the Municipality Address (2018/19 Budget Speech) at the Musina show grounds today (Friday, 22 June). Muhlope is expected to report back to the community how the municipality performed during the current financial year. It is also expected that she will update stakeholders on the latest developments about the Eskom debt. Municipal spokesperson Mr Wilson Dzebu said the mayor was also expected to table plans for the municipality during the incoming financial year, which starts on 1 July. Dzebu said that the municipality had recorded many successes this financial year. “Together with our stakeholders, we have done a lot to improve the lives of our people. Despite limited resources and few revenue sources, we have worked hard to maximize the little financial resources to serve our people.” He said the budget speech was the culmination of public participation meetings held in all 12 wards of the municipality in the past two months. “We travelled to all corners of the municipality, seeking input from community structures and the public. We are happy that the product is an inclusive document that took everyone’s input into consideration. The budget to be presented today was prepared in line with our integrated development plan (IDP) and in terms of the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) No 53 of 2003. The IDP and MFMA remain the cornerstone of every developmental and people-friendly budget, a critical tool for effective governance and proper planning.” Dzebu added that the municipality remained committed to the realization of its five key performance areas, namely good governance and public participation, municipal transformation and organizational development, basic infrastructure and service delivery, local economic development and municipal financial viability and management. “We have no doubt that the budget will add value towards to municipality’s vison of becoming a city in the near future,” Dzebu said.  Mayor Mihloti Muhlope.  Email: