News - Date: 13 August 2018 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 398 At only 18 years of age, Thikho Ligunuba looks like any ordinary girl from the rural village of Ha-Luvhimbi, outside Thohoyandou. This bright young girl, however, is set on changing the world into a better place and she has already showcased one of her inventions to a panel of experts in India. Thikho finished matric last year at Mbilwi Secondary School and, in the process, collected no fewer than seven distinctions. This opened up the doors for her to study Actuarial Science at the University of Cape Town. As if that is not enough, Thikho has started developing an application that will help people, especially students, to avoid slumbering when they are busy with their studies. She says she came up with the idea after realising that she was struggling to concentrate on her studies. “My mom, Tovhowani, used to help me with my study programme when I was still at home, but since I came here to UCT, I have struggled to cope. After many weeks of struggle, I then came up with an idea that would help me and other learners to avoid sleeping when they are studying. The application can also be used by truck drivers who travel long distances and those who work night shifts,” says Thikho. A few months ago, Thikho received a link from the Allan Grey Orbis Foundation (who provided her with a bursary), which helped her to enter a competition that gave her an opportunity to present her business idea in India with 30 other innovators. The presentation was made early in July this year.  Thikho was the youngest of the group, with ages varying between 18 and 30. Eleven of the innovators came from Africa. “When we were there, I was introduced to two experienced business people, Monce Abraham and Vidushi Malhotra, who are going to mentor me and help me to turn my idea into a successful business,” says a very excited Thikho. She is no stranger to inventions, though. Her father is the well-known businessman Mashudu Ligunuba, who also invented his own brand of indigenous food supplements, Nungo Health Foods, some years back. Thikho says she never saw herself coming up with this innovation at such a tender age, but she is now confident that her innovation will succeed. “I believe this application will be up and running after a year. My application will help many students as it will maximise their study time.  It reduces drowsiness,” says Thikho. Thikho Ligunuba.  Email: