News - Date: 25 August 2018 Written by: Tracy Ngobeni / Viewed: 278 Kone Village Boutique Lodge hosted its first annual women’s day luncheon at Ha-Ramantsha a fortnight ago. According to Ms Rotea Sebata, Kone’s marketing executive, the aim of the event was to celebrate women with quality, community leaders, women with strength, and influencers who are capable of changing the world. Pastor Latani Leremi said that women should have qualities like these because society needed them to stand up against abuse. “Women are needed to bring transformation in their families and communities. Women must have integrity, perseverance, and be honest in all that they do because we need women with those characteristics to build a better nation,” she said. Leremi urged women to break the silence when it came to abuse. “You must know that God is your pillar of strength, and by breaking your silence, you share the pain you go through,” said Leremi. She said that the young generation of today needed to learn about commitment and patience because most of them were not committed. “Most teenagers don’t have goals. They just live their life like there is no tomorrow,” she concluded. Artists included Gundo the poet, Richie M, Colbert Mukwevho, the Muzo brothers, Suprise house DJ, Inphase DJ, DJ Mosquito, and Mutodi Nesheshe. Ms Mashudu Marindi, one of the attendees, said that the event had been inspirational. "The message that was delivered by pastor Leremi encouraged us as women not to tolerate abuse, and with education I believe that women can conquer everything, because we have the potential. The message resonated with everyone who attended this function, and what we must do now is to go out and teach others,” said Marindi.  Photographed during the event are fom left to right Mr Vonani Bila (author), Pastor Latani Leremi, Ms Gudani Bila, and Ms Violet Mobeleni.  Tracy Ngobeni is a 20-year-old intern who is doing her final year in journalism at Tsh­wane University of Technology. She was born and bred in Olifantshoek. She started her journalism career in 2017, after submitting her articles to the Record Noweto Newspaper in Pretoria. Her heart beats for print media because she believes that writing can heal reader's souls.  Email: chabalalan98@gmail.com