News - Date: 19 August 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 2069 "Please help our family out of its misery." This is the passionate plea from a distraught family whose members were hit by a tragedy. A few years ago, this woman looked very beautiful and full of life. But, as fate would have it, everything started changing and her world started crumbling in 2016. Her face is now completely deformed, and she is a shadow of her former self. Ms Vhonani Nethifhefhe (42), a married mother of three children from Tshikombani in the Nzhelele area, said it all started as a sinus infection that later developed into a tumour and then turned cancerous. Since then, life has become very bitter for this family. Her condition has left the woman helpless, to such an extent that she cannot take care of herself and her family. She has also lost a lot of weight as a result of her sickness and many of her clothes no longer fit her. As if that was not enough, the family suffered another blow when her husband was knocked down by a truck and sustained serious injuries. He is undergoing treatment and waiting for a surgery and also cannot do anything for himself. The family and the children now have to fend for themselves. Ms Martha Rabada, the sick woman’s mother-in-law, said they had taken her to different doctors, including the local Siloam Hospital, from where she was transferred to the provincial hospital in Polokwane. She said tests were done on her and doctors have confirmed that the cancer is spreading to her head. “The problem is that they have diagnosed her sickness, but they do not have medication to help her. They keep on promising that she will be helped, but we are worried that her condition is worsening. She has lost a lot of weight and her face is completely deformed, to such an extent that people who knew her cannot even recognize her now. We cannot wait any longer, we need help before something bad happens to her,” she said. Mabada further indicated that she was supposed to have been operated on last year, but it was postponed. “They dearly need help, and if there is any doctor out there or any Good Samaritan who can help, please contact them at 082 725 6183 and 079 104 9981,” said Mabada. Ms Vhonani Netshifhefhe.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: