News - Date: 17 August 2018 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 164 Musina Hotel & Conference Centre has been selected as a Top 3 finalist in their category and star grading for the annual Sanlam Top Destination Awards for 2018. The Sanlam Top Destination Awards has been created as an honorary platform for the hospitality industry to put its best foot forward and to be selected as the national “Top Destination” in their respective categories and star grading. In its fourth year running, hospitality establishments throughout South Africa once again stand the chance of being rewarded for their hard work and dedication that make this the champion industry that it is. Finalists are identified against an internal set of criteria in their respective categories and advance to the Gala Awards Ceremony in September 2018. A winner will be selected in each accommodation category and star-grading criteria and crowned “Sanlam Top Destination Awards Winner 2018”. A total of 40 establishments will emerge as winners from the awards. The ultimate winners in each accommodation and star-grading category receive a “Sanlam Top Destination Awards Winner 2018” digital badge, following the awards evening, to implement in all their communications, as well as a prestigious trophy, a winner’s certificate, media exposure and their share of a R1 000 000’s worth of prizes. As for Musina Hotel & Conference Centre, Cynthia Snyders (general manager) and Lashe Neethling (marketing manager) have been invited to attend the gala award evening to be held on 20 September at the Bay Hotel in Camps Bay. General manager of the Musina Hotel & Conference Centre Cynthia Snyders (left) and the hotel’s marketing manager, Lashe Neethling, are on their way to the Sanlam Top Destination Awards gala evening. Photo supplied.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za