News - Date: 04 August 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 851 In one of the bloodiest weekends characterised by violent domestic-related killings in Vhembe, a man is accused of killing his three children in the most gruesome way. The man from Manyii village under the Mphephu traditional authority has been identified as Samuel Madou (43). He allegedly killed his sons Tshilidzi (7), Thabo (6) and Olugaho (2) in the early hours of Saturday at their home. He has since been arrested and appeared in the Dzanani Magistrate’s Court on Monday. He has been charged with three counts of murder. Madou, who looked absent in court and only nodded when he was asked questions, had his case postponed to 27 September for further investigation. His legal representative, Mr Desmond Mphaphuli of DT Mphaphuli Attorneys, applied that the accused be sent for mental observation. The request was granted by the court. Madou’s arrest and subsequent appearance came after the gruesome incident in the early hours of Saturday at around 02:00, when he allegedly hacked his three sons to death while they were asleep in their house. The charge further alleges that Madou started chasing his wife, Ms Rendani Muluvhu, with a panga, but she managed to escape and left the children behind. They were hacked to death in the absence of their mother. Family spokesperson Mr Daniel Madou said that his brother had been behaving strangely prior to the incident. "He called on Friday before the incident, telling us there were people who wanted to kill him, but the people were only seen by him. What we know is that the members of the family loved each other. It was never necessary for us to solve any problem between them.” He added that they were now certain that something was wrong in the accused’s mind “as no normal person could do what he did”. He said that they were very shocked and saddened, but the support they were getting from the government and community was encouraging them. After news of the murders broke, messages of comfort started pouring from all quarters. Among the prominent people to visit the Madou family on Sunday was the mayor of Makhado, Cllr Mildred Sinyosi, who expressed her shock at the brutal killings. She told the family that they were not alone in their grief and that the municipality would always be available to give them support. Cllr Florence Radzilani, executive mayor of Vhembe, addressed the community at the local church before visiting the Madou family on Sunday. "Men are supposed to be the protectors of their families, but of late men have become monsters in their own homes. We are concerned that day in and day out women and children are being killed by the men who are supposed to be protecting them.” She further indicated that the municipality would help with the funeral arrangements. Vhavenda King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana also sent a delegation to the family to find out how best the family could be assisted.  Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani (right) comforts the mother of the children, Ms Rendani Muluvhu, during her visit to the family at Manyii. The accused, Samuel Madou, arrives at the Dzanani Magistrate's  Court. Makhado Mayor Cllr Mildred Sinyosi (centre) and the Chief Whip, Cllr Dorcas Mmboi (left), comfort the mother of the children, Ms Rendani Muluvhu.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: