News - Date: 19 August 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 542 The traditional leader of Matangari village, Vhamusanda Vho-Mutulagole Nyamande, paid homage to grannies such as Vho-Tshinakaho Mabaya and Vho-Mavhungu Netshithuthuni for standing up and building their legacy during difficult conditions in the early eighties. The grannies were among the first women farmers who worked hard and sold their products to the public when farming was considered a male trade at that time. He was addressing stakeholders, community members and guests during an empowerment seminar held at Munombelo Hotel, Matangari, last Thursday. “These grannies had fed many families. They have put our village on the map and contributed to the economic development of our area. It is women like these that the whole country should honour and respect.” He said it was important to empower his subjects through the inaugural seminar that would be held annually. “We focused more on empowering women during this month. We want women to be masters of their own destiny, instead of depending on men to survive. If given support, women can turn our village into a food basket of this country. Everyone knows that we have fertile soil and one of the best irrigation schemes in the country. We want women to take the lead in these projects in order to create more jobs for our people.” He issued a strong warning to community members who abuse women and children. “Any form of women and child abuse should immediately be reported to the police or community leaders. Women abusers have no room in our village.” Other speakers on the day included motivational speaker Humbelani Netshandama, representatives from the National Youth Development Agency,  the Thohoyandou Victim Empowerment Programme, Thandululo Counselling, the Centre for Positive Care, Sanco, Home of Relief and the South African Police Services. Vhamusanda Vho-Mutulagole’s righthand man, Vhakoma Vho-Thomaninganne Muvhango, praised the traditional leader for his community-development vision.  “With less than a year after taking over the throne, there has been a positive portfolio of evidence that Vhamusanda Vho-Mutulagole is steering Matangari village in the right direction,” said Muvhango. The traditional leader of Matangari village, Vhamusanda Vho-Mutulagole Nyamande (middle, with a hat) is welcomed by women in traditional attire on his arrival at the empowerment seminar at Munombelo Hotel, Matangari village. He is accompanied by Vhamusanda Vho-Mmbangiseni Randima of Khubvi (left) and  Vhakoma Vho-Thomaninganne Muvhango.  Email: