News - Date: 05 August 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 410 The deputy chairperson of the Makonde Education Forum, Dr Alfred Alidzulwi, compared Mr Godfrey Masia to a candle that burns itself to provide light to others. Alidzulwi was addressing educators, learners and invited guests who attended Masia’s retirement farewell function held at Raluvhimba High School, Makonde, last week. Masia holds a proud record of 38 years unbroken service as a teacher in various local schools. Masia started teaching at Malilele High School in 1980. He joined Mpandeli High School in 1982 and proceeded to Mudaswali High School (now Silemale) in 1983. He was appointed at Raluvhimba High School in Makonde in 1985, where he taught for 33 years until he retired last week. Alidzulwi said Masia’s name wouidll go down in history as one of the people who played a meaningful role in the development of education in Limpopo.   “He can be described as a good shepherd and loyalist who always made sure that he raised the standard of education and gave a smile to the students he served. He is a great man who always made sure that he raised our educational flag by making sure that he produced hundreds of professionals through his excellent teaching skills. We can all agree that he loved his work and went out an extra mile to fulfil his obligations.” He added that, through Masia’s dedication, he inspired young teachers to love their work. “We wish young teachers could harvest his knowledge and follow in his footsteps to improve the state of education in our schools.” Masia thanked the school governing body of Raluvhimba High School, the learners and the community stakeholders for giving him the opportunity to realize his potential as a teacher for 33 years at the same school. He said he did not regret becoming a teacher, because when he looked back, he saw the flowers of his hard labour blossoming. “There is nothing that makes me happier than meeting the doctors, engineers, teachers, lawyers and other professionals that I have produced. I have really worked hard, and this is the perfect time for me to rest.” A renowned soccer coach, Masia has a message for young teachers: “Work is not about money, it is about putting a smile on the face of the person you are assisting. When you go to class, you must be fully prepared. If you want to enjoy your work, love what you do and execute all your duties on time.” Prolific teacher Godfrey Masia has retired after 38 years of unbroken service.  Email: