News - Date: 24 August 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 409 Community members from Bungeni and surrounding villages attended the installation of senior traditional leader Hosi Given Bungeni at the Bungeni Stadium last Thursday. The ceremony was attended by hundreds of community members and traditional leaders clad in traditional attire. When he installed the new traditional leader, the chairperson of the Limpopo House of Traditional Leaders, Kgosi Malelesela Dikgale, said that it was important that the residents of Bungeni area have a traditional leader for the sake of proper governance. Quoting from the Bible, Dikgale urged the new chief to be humble and to listen to the advice from family and the elders of the village. “Expectations are high from the community and this will need you to be dedicated. Do not undermine the family as they have the right to remove you from your position, and please let us work together for the benefit of our people,” added Dikgale. He urged the new traditional leader to look after the interests of the poor and also urged the community to give the utmost support and respect to their leaders. The MEC for Coghsta, Mr Jerry Ndou, advised the new traditional leader to be aware of the needs of the community and to work alongside the government. Ndou said that community members must respect the newly installed traditional leader. He added that the newly inaugurated headman must focus on developing the area. Hosi Bungeni said it was a great day for his people and that he was aware of the challenges ahead of him. He said his immediate attention would be to engage the relevant authorities for the development of the village. “We are quite aware of the challenges like water, electricity and roads in our area," he said. Elderly people dance during the installation of the senior traditional leader. The new installed traditional leader, Hosi Given Bungeni.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za