News - Date: 24 August 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 700 If you want to know what true love is, ask Pastor Tshifhiwa David Mammburu Rantsana of the Mount on Wings Christian Church. Tshifhiwa left his well-paying job at a Johannesburg hospital to take care of his ailing wife, Kanakana Joyce Mammburu Rantsana (55). This revelation was made during the emotional funeral service of Kanakana at Mangondi village outside Thohoyandou on Saturday. Despite the cold and windy weather, hundreds of mourners from the United States of America, Gauteng, Limpopo and other parts of the country came in large numbers to say their final goodbye to Kanakana, who was regarded as a brave soldier of the Christian faith. Speakers acknowledged the fact that Kanakana had been sick for the past 15 years, but despite the pain and sorrows, she never stopped praising the Lord. Family representative Pastor Bethuel Rantsana said although the family was grieving, they were proud that they were celebrating a life well lived. Rantsana thanked family members, friends and community members for their support during the hard times. “When we heard that our loved one was gone, we did not even know where to start with the funeral preparations, because we were confused. Your support has made us feel stronger, even though our hearts are bleeding with pain.” Kanakana’s childhood friend, Thivhileli Netshiavha, said she was blessed to have had someone like Kanakana in her life. “She was a prayer warrior who encouraged us to pray even in difficult situations. Even though she was ailing, we would go to the mountains together to pray and praise the Lord. She served the Lord to the best of her ability, and I have no doubt that the Lord has welcomed her soul with a beautiful smile. We will surely miss her to the end.” Pastor Reckon Nengwenda of the Living Christ Church Centre likened Kanakana to Job in the Bible who suffered and lost everything, but never deserted the Lord. “She knew what she stood for. We wish we can have more strong Christians like her in this world of today.” Born on 15 June 1963, Kanakana did her primary schooling at Mukula and completed her Grade 12 at Raluvhimba High School in Makonde.  She studied early childhood development at the University of Venda and worked at Niani, Khubvi Pre-school and Mveledzandivho Primary School in Gauteng. She fell sick in 2003 and could not work until she passed away last week.  She is survived by her husband, four children (Takalani, Collen, Thendo and Gundo) and four grandchildren. The late Kanakana Joyce Mammburu Rantsana. Pastor Tshifhiwa David Mammburu Rantsana (left) pays tribute at his wife’s gravesite shortly after the funeral. He is photographed with his children, Thendo, Gundo and Collen.  Email: