News - Date: 31 August 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 319 Musina Municipality recently appointed Mr Livhuani Thomas Nephawe as its new chief financial officer (CFO). The position became vacant after Ms Jane Tshikundamalema resigned two years ago. A senior manager in the finance department, Mr Liston Murulana, had been acting in the position until Nephawe’s recent appointment. Mayor Mihloti Muhlope welcomed Nephawe to Musina Municipality and expressed her confidence in his financial skills. “He is a highly respected financial manager and we are happy to be associated with him. Council will give him full support to execute his duties accordingly. With Musina’s prospects of becoming a city soon, there is no doubt that his wealth of experience will add value to the growth of the municipality. He is a seasoned financial expert who has in-depth understanding of the public sector and local government.” Nephawe is a graduate from the Universities of the Witwatersrand and Pretoria and has worked as acting CFO and head of supply chain and asset management at the Capricorn District Municipality. He was also the CFO of Greater Taung Local Municipality and manager of financial services at the Polokwane Municipality, where he also worked as acting CFO. He also served at Makhado Municipality as financial manager and acted as CFO in the same institution. Among his previous roles, Nephawe also served as the CFO of Thulamela Municipality. He also worked at Naledi Local Municipality as deputy town treasurer, Westonaria Local Municipality as finance assistant director, Musina Municipality as town treasurer expenditure, at Water and Sanitation Services (Pty) Ltd as accountant and at KPMG as trainee accountant. Nephawe said that he was ready for the exciting journey ahead and very happy to be part of the big family at Musina Municipality. “I’m here to advance the municipality’s primary objective of delivering efficient services. This will be achieved by means of team work, dedication and cooperation with various organs and stakeholders of the municipality.” Mayor Mihloti Muhlope welcomes the new chief financial officer of Musina Municipality, Mr Livhuani Thomas Nephawe.  Email: