News - Date: 31 August 2018 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 177 The Limpopo MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Baisikopo Makamu strongly commended all the women who participated in the 2018 Female Entrepreneurs Awards of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF). Makamu congratulated the various district and provincial winners. He also encouraged the winners to return to their projects and reinvest in their growth and diversification. MEC Makamu was joined on the stage by the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Mr Senzeni Zokwana, the Minister of Rural Development and Land Reforms, Ms Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Executive Mayor of Vhembe District Municipality Cllr Florence Radzilani and Thulamela Mayor Avhashoni Tshifhango. The 2018 Female Entrepreneurs Awards were handed over during a gala event held at the 2Ten Sibasa hotel outside Thohoyandou on August 17. The theme was: “Women Economic Empowerment - A priority for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries”. The winners included Ms Patricia Mola (Best Female Worker), Ms Emily Tshifularo (Best Subsistence Producer), Maribe Cooperative (Top Entrepreneur Smallholder) and Ms Dorcas Maleka (Top Entrepreneur Commercial). Ms Tryphina Mosomane of the Try Moss Food was the overall winner, while Ms Selinah Mulovhedzi received the MEC Special Award for Female Disability and Ms Constance Komana received the MEC Special Award Female Youth. According to MEC Makamu, the main intention of the Annual Female Entrepreneur of the Year Awards is to take women and put them on a provincial pedestal, which will in turn launch them to the country, the continent and the world. He said that the provincial winners would now pit their strength against the winners from other provinces for national honours. Makamu said that his department would settle for nothing less than the overall national winner of the 2018/2019 Female Entrepreneur of the Year to come from Limpopo province. The Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Senzeni Zokwana, said that there were many unused pieces of land such as the land owned by the SA National Defence Force and the Department of Public Works that his department and the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform would be willing to take and utilize for farming and agriculture. “We want our traditional leaders to partner with us and tackle the issue of land reform with them. As government, we don’t want to take the land owned by traditional leaders in our campaign of taking land without compensation,” Minister Zokwana said. Minister for Rural Development and Land Reform Ms Maite Nkoana-Mashabane distributed over R10 million worth of seedlings, fertilizers and tractors during her visit to Makhado farmers on Friday. The overall winner, Tryphina Mosomane of Try Moss Foods in the Capricorn District, said she was over the moon to learn that she had won the 2018 Female Entrepreneurs Awards. Mosomane said she established her business in Seshego near Polokwane in the Capricorn District in 2016 and was processing flavoured beetroot. She went away with more than R1 million in prizes, a certificate and a trophy. She urged other female farmers to work hard as it finally pays off. The Best Female Worker, Ms Patricia Mola, receives her award from Dzawe Ratshikuni, Ms Mamabolo and Mr Ndlove. The Best Subsistence Producer, Ms Emily Galushi, receives her cheque.  Email: