News - Date: 23 August 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 896 Soccer lovers around Vhembe were shocked and angry when they realised that some lights and cable at the Thohoyandou Stadium had been stolen on Monday night. The incident took place hours before Prof Ronny Schloss of the PSL visited the stadium for a third time to determine if the stadium was fit to stage PSL matches. The municipal spokesperson, Mr Nndwamato Tshiila, said that the criminals clearly did not care in the slightest about the monetary losses to the municipality. According to Tshiila, the “theft is not only measured in terms of replacement, but in consideration of service disruptions resulting from this vandalism”. The cost of replacement is therefore very high. According to Tshiila, copper thieves annually cost the municipality hundreds of thousands of rands, which could have been better spent on service delivery. Tshiila said that they had already replaced the stolen lights and cable. He said it was of the utmost importance to report anything that might help the police arrest the thieves and prevent further crimes such as these from taking place. One of the soccer lovers in the area, Mashudu Muedi, said that he was disappointed by the incident. He said that those thieves wanted to deny soccer lovers the chance to watch matches at their own home stadium. Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, the local police spokesperson, said that the police had opened a case of theft. Police investigations into the matter are continuing and the police are appealing to the community to come forth with any information that might lead to the arrest of the suspects.   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za