News - Date: 07 August 2018 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 2455 The police have made a major breakthrough in the case regarding a burglary at a well-known chain store in Louis Trichardt last Thursday by arresting two suspects. Provincial police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed on Tuesday morning that the police had arrested a 28-year-old suspect sought in connection with the burglary, along with a 30-year-old possible accomplice. Both were arrested on 6 August along the N1 north outside Louis Trichardt. The arrests follow a manhunt by the Makhado police after a business robbery at the Pick n Pay store at Makhado Crossing during the evening of 2 August. Workers at the store allegedly reported for duty that morning and found that a large, undisclosed amount of cash had been stolen from the cash office by unknown suspects. “The method used to gain entry in this shop is not yet clear at this stage, but the ongoing police investigation will tell,” said Ngoepe. This burglary occurred within 24 hours of an armed robbery at the same store, early on Wednesday morning, 1 August. According to local police spokesperson Const Irene Radzilane, an unidentified man walked into the store just after opening at 09:00, pretending to be a client. He suddenly produced a firearm, grabbed a money bag from one of the female employees and fired a shot into the air. The man then ran towards the back of the store to exit through the receiving gate. He got into a struggle with a security guard stationed at the gate, however. “He fired another two shots and managed to escape,” said Radzilane, adding that the suspect got away in a silver Ford Focus that was parked at the back of the store. No-one was injured during the robbery. Radzilane said that the man had managed to get away with an undisclosed amount of money. “Both suspects will appear in the Louis Trichardt Magistrate’s Court soon,” said Ngoepe.  The police have arrested two suspects in connection with the burglary at the Pick n Pay store in Louis Trichardt last week, during which a large, undisclosed amount of cash was stolen out of the cash office.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za