News - Date: 11 August 2018 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 260 Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani has urged the community of Vhembe, especially those in Vuwani and other areas of the newly formed Collins Chabane Local Municipality, not to fight over demarcation issues. In her address during the Mandela Centenary celebration held at Nwamatatani on July 18, Radzilani said it was wrong for people to fight over demarcation issues. Referring to those who are pro-Makhado and those who are pro-Collins Chabane, Radzilani said: “It is unfortunate that, more than two decades after democracy, people are still divided on who will fall in which municipality as if they come from different planets.” Radzilani said the issue affected her personally, because she grew up at Masakona, a village dominated by Venda-speaking people but surrounded by villages dominated by Tsonga-speaking people. “When I grew up, there was never an issue about Vendas versus Tsongas. Even when I go to Makhado or Thohoyandou every day, I pass these areas that are dominated by Tsonga-speaking people.  But when a group of people start preaching this misleading information that is fuelling tribal divisions, I get worried,” said Radzilani. Radzilani further said that once the Demarcation Board had taken its decision of incorporating some of the areas from Vuwani into the new municipality, “this issue was not supposed to be postponed until after elections. That move was wrong. This issue was supposed to be dealt with there and then.” Mayor Radzilani said that, as an executive mayor, she was forced to take resources to areas where only 15 people had voted. “Now we are dealing with people who became popular because of this issue of opposing the decision of the demarcation board,” said Radzilani while urging the community to refuse to be divided over ethnic issues. Radzilani also urged every citizen to respond to President Ramaphosa’s call for renewal and unity in every corner of the country. “The issue of renewal must start with us.  For unity and renewal to succeed, we must forgive each other. Those who are in government must work hard to deliver to the people. We are first ANC volunteers before we become councillors,” said Radzilani. Her other concern is that councillors seem to shy away from the community.  She said she always received calls from community members who were worried about service delivery in their areas. “Although I appreciate these calls, my concern is where the local councillors in these areas are?  If I continue receiving these calls, very soon there will be protest marches,” she said. Radzilani said she was concerned that resources and infrastructures such as roads, schools and clinics were being damaged during these marches. “There is a new dawn. We must work as a unit and respect each other, including our traditional leaders,” said Radzilani. Vhembe Executive Mayor Cllr Florence Radzilani  (right) with Collins Chabane Local Municipality Mayor Cllr Joyce Bila. Picture: Ndivhuwo Musetha  Email: