News - Date: 25 August 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 199 Challenges facing young women were in the spotlight during the Young Women’s Talk seminar that was held at the Folovhodwe Community Hall on Saturday. The event was organized by a local non-profit organization, Mbeu Community Development. The organization was formed in 2015 to empower young people in the Niani area. The chairperson and founder of the organization, Vhahangwele Munyai, said it was important to hold the event, especially during women’s month. “Young women are faced with various challenges that hinder their progress on a daily basis. These include rape, teenage pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases and other sorts of criminal activities. As young people, we have to face these challenges head-on to pave the way for a better future amongst our young people.” Munyai said to be able to tackle the challenges with ease, her organization had trained peer educators to engage with young people. “Young people will understand better if the message is delivered by their peers. Our peer educators are highly trained and they have the necessary skills to transfer knowledge to their peers. We are happy that today’s event has played a major role in empowering our young people.” Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlope, who attended the event as a guest, said she was happy that young people were making progress to improve their lives. “Young people are our future leaders and as such, they need our support to be able to realize their potential. We have a desk that works with young people in our municipality to make sure that our youth are given the necessary support.” Muhlope urged young women to report all types of abuse to the relevant authorities. “We will not tolerate a situation where our young people are abused by senseless individuals. We urge the law-enforcement agencies to punish the abusers, so that they can serve as an example that crime against women will never be tolerated in our country.” Mayor Mihloti Muhlope (fourth from left) photographed with the peer educators of Mbeu Community Development after the Young Women’s Talk at Folovhodwe.  Email: