News - Date: 12 August 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 277 The seventh Phalaphala FM Royal Heritage Festival, as well as the second gospel festival, was launched last Wednesday at Auckland Park. The gospel festival will be held on 7 September at the Charish Missionary Church in Makwarela and the Royal Heritage Festival will be held at Nandoni Dam the following day. According to one of the organisers, Shandu Nesengani, the purpose of the heritage festival is to showcase the cultural diversity of Vhembe and Limpopo. “The festival provides the province with an opportunity to unify its citizens and the neighbouring countries, to celebrate the rich cultural heritage and promote tourism in the province,” he added. Nesengani said they had improved on last year’s festival and that it would be all systems go this year. “Each year comes with its challenges, but we have improved two-fold in terms of parking, security and all other measures that will make revellers feel at home,” he said. He added that the event would also provide a platform “for the unique melting pot of cultures coming together” for an enormous celebration.  Nesengani said they were expecting more than 25 000 people at the event. Celebrating its seventh year of existence, the Phalaphala FM Heritage Festival has found its feet and cemented itself as one of the province’s biggest shows. The Phalaphala FM events coordinator, Mr Lufuno Munonde, said that Nandoni was the best place to be if one was a music lover. According to him, Venda was the heartbeat of the nation when it came to minerals and music. “This is the perfect place to set yourself free, let loose to the biggest and best sounds from African acts across the board.” Last year saw 25 000 people gather on Venda soil to absorb the excitement and tap their party feet. The bar keeps being raised and this year it will not be any different. “All roads lead to Limpopo, and what better way to discover our beautiful country than making a pit stop at one of our richest places in minerals and drenched in tradition,” said Munonde. The second edition of the Royal Gospel Festival will set the tone on 7 September at the Charis Missionary Church at Makwarela in Thohoyandou. After last year’s success, this is one for the books. The artists scheduled to perform include the multi-award-winning Dr Tumi, Worship House, Benjamin Dube, Zaza, Rofhiwa Manyanga, Taki Ndou, Justice Nema, Palesa Ravele, Bishop Roxley Masevhe, Secret of Worship, Taki Sikhwivhilu, Rapson Rambuwani, Jay Mbiza, Thili Maumela, Puluso Thenga, Zamo Dlamini, Thabelo Thavhanyedza, Tiyani Maluleke, Naphy M and a surprise act. Tickets are now available at Computicket and cost R200 each. The Royal Heritage Festival will go down on 8 September at the Royal Gardens, Nandoni Dam. Setting the stage alight will be AKA, Colbert Mukwevho, Shekinah, Jonas Gwangwa, Zonke, Thomas Chauke, Afrotainment, DJ Tira, TipCee, Dladla Mshunqisi, SunEl, Busiswa, Mlindo The Vocalist, King Monada, Leonard Zhakatha, Team Mosha, Benny Mayengani, Zozo, Makhadzi, Sir McKleker, Zamo Dlamini, Russian Army, Una Rams, Dupa, Kanakana Cook, Mazwale and Sungel. On the decks will be DJs Shimza, Lerato Kganyago, Speedsta, Ganyani, Zinhle, VJ Nutty and for Venrap Power Hour will be Bhamba, Ramzeey, Rachakill, Prifix, Bomo, Batondy, Jack Bunny and a surprise act. Tickets are now available at Computicket. Prices are: R200 for general, R1 450 for VIP (Contact Luande on 076 299 1387). Gates will be open from 09:00 until late.  Mazwale. Naphy M. Makhadzi  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za