News - Date: 06 August 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 324 Residents of Tshifulanani Ha-Mugomeli outside Thohoyandou, who had to risk crocodiles while crossing the Dzindi River and criminals along the path leading to the main road for years, are looking forward to a better future. Despite being one of the oldest villages, the area has experienced little development, but this is changing gradually. This follows a donation by a local businessman who donated his machinery for the construction of a makeshift bridge that will, besides being safe, also shorten the distance to the main road to Thohoyandou. Besides the bridge, Mr Pieter Lordan of Vhavenda Bricks at Lwamondo is also clearing a 5km road that will provide one of the main access points to the village. The initiator of the project is the chairperson of Munna Ndi Nnyi Men's Forum, Mr Bardwell Mufunwaini. He and members of the community approached the company for assistance. The bridge has come as a great relief to workers who work at the nearby Shayandima factories and those going for shopping in Thohoyandou. Additionally, the area is much safer as the bushes have also been cleared. Mufunwaini started the project out of his pocket and, after exhausting his coffers, approached the company for help. "People were risking their lives passing through this bush and crossing the dangerous waters of this river. There are many crocodiles here and it is luck that we have had no incident for some time. The bush here are also a haven for criminals, and now our people will be safer.” He further said that the Department of Public Works had also indicated their willingness to assist them in making it a fully fledged bridge. Vhavenda Bricks director Mr Pieter Lordan said it was part of the social responsibility programme of their company. "We did not hesitate or think twice when approached by Mufunwaini for assistance. We are a people-driven company, and this is a ploughback to the community.” Vhavenda Bricks' manager, Mr Riaan Botha (standing left), Mr Reckson Mukwevho (standing  right), Munna Ndi Nnyi Men's Forum chairperson Mr Bardwell Mufunwaini (behind Botha), Mr Aaron Munzhelele (right behind Mukwevho) and the driver of the machine, Mr Albert Muavha, at the site were an access road is being opened.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: