News - Date: 30 August 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 534 As the countdown towards the Thulamela annual show draws closer, local musicians are very upbeat about their inclusion in the line-up to perform during the event. For a long time, artists in the Vhembe, especially in Thulamela, have complained about government's side-lining them when it came to performances during government functions. To add insult to injury, the musicians also cried foul, saying the local municipalities were also taking their bread and butter away by not allowing them to perform publicly in towns like Louis Trichardt and Thohoyandou. The local Thulamela Municipality has taken a different stance this year and has taken heed of their plight. Only local musicians will perform during the secondThulamela Annual Show to take place at the Makhuvha Stadium this week, from 30 August to 1 September. Show coordinator Mr Mulalo Nemakonde said the main aim of the show was to empower local small, medium and micro enterprises by providing a platform and opportunity to showcase their work and products to the rest of the district. "Furthermore, the three-day show will also put together local business entrepreneurs, arts and crafts, cultural groups and government in one place for the duration of the show. There will be a lot of fun and entertainment and other activities include: kiddies entertainment, beauty contest, various career opportunities for young people, amongst others,” he added. Despite the activities, there will be a music concert on Saturday, where well-known local artists such as Colbert Mukwevho, Burning Doctor, Makhadzi, Whitey Dama, Taki Sikhwivhilu, Khakhathi & Friends, Shufflers, Naphy M and many more will perform. He further indicated that pensioners and people living with disabilities will be entering for free and, at the official opening of the show, all people will be entering free. Immediately after being confirmed to perform at the show, well-known reggae icon Khakhathi Tshisikule of Khakhathi and Friends fame said he was upbeat about the event. "We are glad they have come to their senses. We have been side-lined for a long time and it is now our time to shine. We will do what we are known for and the municipality did well by including us.” Khakhathi Tshisikule - "the municipality came to its senses by giving us a platform to perform."  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: