News - Date: 12 August 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1311 Many questions remain unanswered pertaining to the disappearance of a local woman at the Tshilidzini Hospital. Ms Pinky Masuvhelele (31), an insurance company employee in Louis Trichardt, was admitted to Tshilidzini Hospital on 26 July and went missing on 30 July. She has not been seen since and how she vanished without a trace remains a mystery. Masuvhelele stays at Mutsha Tshilavhu. Her relatives are left with many questions, but few answers have been forthcoming. Mr Jefferey Ramuhashi, her husband, said he had received a call from the hospital at around 21: 31 on that fateful day, enquiring as to how she had arrived home. He said he was very shocked as he knew she was in hospital. “I immediately rushed to the hospital, where they told me she was discovered missing at about 20:00 by nurses on duty. We phoned her mother, Ms Peggy Maravha, who also arrived at the hospital. We started searching all over the hospital yard, helped by hospital security, but our search yielded no positive results,” Ramuhashi said. The search party then went to relatives and friends and even visited surrounding villages, but with no luck. “It is almost a week now since she went missing, and we have had sleepless nights trying to figure out what could have happened to her,” he said. Ramuhashi explained that she had been admitted to a private ward of the hospital, which they thought offered the best facilities, including security. He added that it was also surprising and disappointing to find that such a big institution lacked surveillance cameras. “We are very disappointed as a family. We need answers to our questions, and we want to know what happened to our beloved Pinky. She cannot just disappear into thin air,” said Ramuhashi. The missing woman’s brother, Mr Norman Ganeli, said that there were so many factors that left room for them to suspect that the hospital was hiding something and that they were not serious about finding her. “The incident happened at night and the CEO never bothered to come to the hospital. He only came the following day when reporting for duty. Nothing was done on the side of the police in terms of searching and the sealing off of the scene. The dog unit only arrived on Wednesday and the scene was already tampered with,” he said. Ganeli said that the family had waited for the MEC, who had promised to meet with them, but she had never pitched up. “Does it need to be a child of the President to be helped? We are fed up as a family and we feel nothing is being done to help us trace Pinky. We have been doing the search on our own since it happened,” he said. Limpopo Department of Health spokesperson Thabiso Teffo directed all enquiries to the police, saying the matter was in their hands. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed that a missing-person docket has been opened. He described Masuvhelele as of average height, weight and light in complexion. “She was wearing pink pyjama trousers, a white top and Adidas sandals at the time of her disappearance,” he said. Anyone with information as to her whereabouts can contact Detective W/O Radzilani at 082 222 9023, 015 960 1000 or her next of kin on 072 2112 953/ 072 506 0274.  The missing Ms Pinky Masuvhelele, who vanished without a trace. The missing woman's family, who waited for hours at Tshilidzini Hospital for Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba, who never came.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: