News - Date: 20 August 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 562 A group of caring community members from Makonde village, outside Thohoyandou, have come together to revive the legacy of Raluvhimba Secondary School. The only high school in the village, Raluvhimba was built in the early eighties and blossomed to become one of the leading schools in the then Venda homeland. Despite all the school's previous achievements, it faces serious challenges, ranging from infrastructure development to teaching aids. The group, who call themselves Raluvhimba Project Committee, had their first meeting at the school last Friday. The secretary of the committee, Mr Fhambanani Nemandava, says the first task will be to conduct an assessment and make recommendations on what needs to be done to assist the school. “We will approach various sponsors to come on board, so that we can raise money to improve the school. As a former student of this school, I feel very strongly that something needs to be done to improve the learning conditions here. This school has a very rich history and it is the pride of our village and the community of Makonde. Its name has a great significance for the whole Vhavenda nation as Raluvhimba was regarded as the god of the Vhavenda people who visited our ancestors at Makonde mountain.” Committee chairperson and retired academic Mr Ntshavheni Ramaofisi says it is good that Makonde has been declared a nodal growth point of Thulamela Municipality. “This means that we need schools with modern infrastructure, quality education and a conducive learning environment. If we improve this school, we will be able to fit easily into the vision of our municipality of making Makonde into a nodal growth point.” A former learner at the school, Humbulani Sikhanukha, who serves as the organizer of the committee, says that the Raluvhimba Project Committee will work with various stakeholders to improve the learning conditions at the school.  “This committee is not a standalone structure.  It will work together with the school governing body, local traditional council, Sanco, Makonde Education Forum, various community structures and interested individuals with the common goal of reviving the legacy of the school. We invite everyone who has the interests of Raluvhimba High School at heart to come and join us in this venture.” The full committee of the Raluvhimba Project Committee is as follows: Ntshavheni Ramaofisi (chairperson), Thina Nemakhavhani (deputy chairperson), Fhambanani Nemandava (secretary), Tendani Radema (bookkeeper), Eunice Dzege (treasurer), Humbulani Sikhanukha (organizer) and Mmboswobeni Mankhili (additional member). Well-known government communicator Mr Wilson Dzebu is the advisor of the committee. Stakeholders, former learners and interested community members who would like to be part of the Raluvhimba revival project can contact Humbulani Sikhanukha at 076 270 8570.  Members of the Raluvhimba Project Committee, photographed shortly after their fruitful meeting last week. They are, from left to right, Humbulani Sikhanukha, Tendani Radema, Ntshavheni Ramaofisi, Thina Nemakhavhani and Fhambanani Nemandava.  Email: