News - Date: 12 August 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 569 Model Rudzani Racheal Bereda has managed to reach the semi-finals of the Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 beauty pageant. A resident of Midoroni village in the Kutama area, 25-year-old Rudzani's story was published in the Limpopo Mirror earlier this year, when she requested readers to vote for her to boost her points in the pageant. “Since that article on 9 March, my Facebook page likes have topped 1000, and votes for me increased,” she said. “I feel humble. In Tshivenda, they say ‘hu vuswa i divusaho’ (if you try to do something good or positive, chances are that people will always step in to help) – and I am so happy that I continue to get help from those who can see that my star is rising.” Rudzani is one of the brand ambassadors in the Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 beauty pageant. She describes herself as a woman who possesses the character of an eagle. “I have been helping families around my community with the little that I have, donating old, wearable clothes and blankets,” she said. “As long as you work hard, one day you will achieve your goals, and you'll reap your reward.” “I'd like to thank everyone who has helped me with this journey so far,” she said. “I extend my special thanks to Rinae Riri Sengani for inviting me to almost every seminar for the empowerment of women, which is really helpful in finding ways to forgive, and the courage to talk about every bad experience I've been through.” To vote for Rudzani, SMS RUDZANI to 35334; follow her journey on Instagram RRBereda_MESA2018. Readers can also like her Facebook page (Rudzani Racheal Bereda Miss Eagle South Africa2018 Brand Ambassador-Limpopo).  Rudzani Racheal Bereda managed to reach the semi-finals of the Miss Eagle South Africa 2018 beauty pageant. Model Rudzani Racheal Bereda.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com