News - Date: 03 March 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 355 The man who allegedly killed his girlfriend at Tshikwani a month ago is still in custody and will appear in court again on 9 March. The woman was buried in the Tshikota cemetery over the past weekend. Ms Daphney Mahlalane (24), a resident of Tshikota, died after she was allegedly hit with a sharp object. The incident happened at Tshikhwani village on Saturday, 17 February. According to the police, it is alleged that the suspect, Thabelo Tharini (25) of Gogobole, had had an argument with his girlfriend. It is said that the argument resulted in a fight, during which Mahlalane was allegedly strangled and stabbed to death. Tharini allegedly took her to Madombidzha clinic after the incident for treatment. She was transferred to the Louis Trichardt Memorial hospital, but she was certified dead when she arrived. Police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the incident, saying that the police had subsequently opened a case of murder. “Our investigations are still continuing. We also managed to arrest the suspect the next day. We urge community members to consult or engage third parties such as elders and counsellors when faced with problems, to avoid such incidents,” he said. A family representative, Ms Somia Lishivha Nevhulamba, said that the family members were saddened by the death. “We lost a family member and she cannot be replaced,” she said. Tharini appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate's Court on Tuesday, 20 February, and his case was postponed to the 26th for a bail application. He was denied bail and the case was postponed to 9 March. The suspect: Thabelo Tharini (25). Killed: Daphney Mahlalane.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za