News - Date: 11 March 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 313 The MEC for Social Development, Ms Mapula Mokaba-Phukwana, encouraged social work students at the University of Venda to take advantage of the free education offer. She talked to students during a recent visit to the Research Conference Centre.

She congratulated the students on choosing a career that improves people's lives. "You chose this profession because of your passion and love for your people. You decided to become part of the few who opted to contribute towards enhancing the livelihood of our communities," she said.

She further said that their chosen careers enhanced the capacity of people to face life's challenges and address them amicably. "Your chosen profession seeks to promote social justice in favour of individuals, families, groups and communities. It also instills sensitivity for cultural and ethnic diversity towards ending unfair discrimination, poverty and other forms of societal ills," she added.

She told the students that employment opportunities within the Social Development Department were abundant. "The community services we render need more of you to enrol as social workers. We must ensure that there is a social worker in every village. We need whistle blowers everywhere to report any signs of abuse, tension, frustration, conflict and aggression, so that we can intervene in time," she said.

She urged the students to pursue their studies relentlessly and complete them with flying colours. "The field requires outstanding patriots, who are more passionate and energetic. Focus on what you are here for, which is to study and get your degrees, and make your parents and all of us proud. All other things shall follow," she said. Photographed during the event are, from left to right, Ms Kgamotse Rakgoale, Prof Mokgale Makgopa, MEC Mapula Mokaba-Phukwana, Dr Glory Lekganyane and Ms Nkhumeleni Lalumbe. The MEC for Social Development, Ms Mapula Mokaba-Phukwana.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: