News - Date: 19 March 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 844 “The journey was very pleasant, and I arrived safely. The seating arrangements, the setting in the mobile restaurant and the security features are of a very high standard. I’m still going to use the same mode of transport when I go back home in a few days’ time.” These are the words of Ms Grace Tlou from Musina. She was one of the first people to board the first passenger train from Musina to Gauteng after the service was discontinued four years ago. The trip took place a fortnight ago. When addressing invited guests before the train departed for Gauteng, Cllr Jeremiah Khunwana of the Musina Municipality said the launch fitted well into Musina Municipality’s vision of being the gateway to the rest of Africa. “Imagine any major city without a public transport network. That city will automatically come to a halt. We can now all agree that one of the characteristics of a successful city is the availability of an affordable, reliable and safe public transport network.” He said the benefits and importance of reinstating the passenger service after it had been withdrawn in 2014 would impact everyone, even those who might never board the train.  “The service will help to foster a sense of unity. This is because people travelling together are more likely to feel a community connection than those travelling in isolation. We strongly believe that this passenger rail service will help to reduce injuries and fatalities caused by vehicle accidents, while at the same time providing accessible transport, regardless of people’s demographics such as income or age.” He added that the use of the long-distance train would also reduce air pollution and road congestion, because it would reduce the number of cars on the roads. Main Line Passenger Services’ head of Marketing and Communications, Ms Daisy Daniel, said she had no doubt that the affordable prices, safety and the train’s user-friendly facilities would attract more people to make use of the new train passenger services. She also thanks for the support from the political management team of Musina Municipality. Ms Grace Tlou (third from left) pictured with Ms Daisy Daniel (left) Cllr Nkele Milanzi. This was shortly before Tlou boarded the train to Gauteng. Representatives from Musina Municipality and Main Line Passenger Services, photographed during the launch of the Musina-Johannesburg passenger train last Sunday.  Email: