News - Date: 02 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 166 Residents from Tshakuma, relatives and interested parties in the case of murdered police officer W/O Alugumi Nemugumoni arrived in their numbers at the Vuwani Magistrate's Court on Friday. This was during the apearance of the late officer's daughters, who had allegedly conspired with two brothers from the same village to have their father killed. The two sisters, Khathutshelo Nemugumoni (26) and Phophi Nemugumoni (21), were joined on Friday by brothers Nyambeni Tshisudi (31) and Calvin Tshisudi (19) in court. During the short appearance, an agreement was reached between their legal representatives and the prosecutor. Their case was postponed to 2 March 2018 for a formal bail application. The accused were not asked to plead and they all looked composed during the appearance. The sisters were casually dressed in black dresses while the eldest, Khathutshelo, had a baby strapped on her back. Nemugumoni (56) of Tshakhuma served the SAPS for many years and was killed in what is believed to be a carefully planned murder. He was stabbed to death after being ambushed on arrival at his home. The incident that is still the talķ of the village happened a fortnight ago. The elder brother, Thuso, said they were greatly saddened about their father's death. "I was away at college in Phalaborwa when I got the sad news," he said. He was in court and said he was not worried about the postponement as he knew justice would finally prevail. He further said that he wished for the killers to rot in jail for their sins. The accused, Calvin Tshisudi (nearest camera), Phophi Nemugumoni (facing camera) and Khathutshelo Nemugumoni  (with baby) during their appearance at Vuwani. With a baby strapped to her back, Khathutshelo Nemugumoni, followed by her younger sister Phophi, leaves the Vuwani Magistrate's Court. Heartbroken: brothers Thuso and Thonifho (right), who want to see the killers of their father rot in jail. Brothers Calvin (green top) and Nyambeni Tshisudi are led out of court.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: