News - Date: 25 March 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 664 A man suspected of troubling the community around Elim, was beaten to death by an alleged lynch mob at Mpheni on Sunday. According to a report, Mr Mashudu Chabalala (37) of Mbhokota was confronted by a group of people at Mpheni and they allegedly beat him with different objects. It was also reported that during previous weeks, members of the community had set alight four houses of families after accusing them of hiding suspects at Mbhokota. From what could be established, a community meeting was held in Mbhokota and it was apparently decided that members of the community will take it on themselves to curb the spiralling crime in the area. They then allegedly started to search for suspects around the villages. On Sunday the suspect was spotted at a tavern in Mpheni and a message was allegedly sent to Mbhokota that the wanted suspect was at Mpheni. Members of the community of Mbhokota later arrived at Mpheni and joined the community to apprehend the suspect. He was then beaten to death. Community members allege that Chabalala was part of a group of men that were terrorising the community. They allegedly also broke into houses, stole household goods and assaulted people. “We are tired of the anarchy caused by the thugs. They have been terrorising us for a long time,” a member of the community said. He added that the community decided to take the law into their own hands, because they felt the police were not doing their job. “We are sick and tired of the police arresting criminals and then, within weeks, they are released.”' The mother of the deceased, Ms Jeaneth Chabalala, was overwhelmed with grief. “I am saddened, and in a state of shock. I do not have any idea as to what could have happened,” she said. Chabalala said that the family now rely on the police to arrest the people who had murdered her son. The spokesperson for the SAPS in Limpopo, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed that a murder case had been opened after a man was attacked and beaten to death by community members. They also said that the suspect was wanted by the police in connection with many cases ranging from murder to house-breaking and assault. Ngoepe said that he was concerned about the fact that the community had taken the law into their own hands. “We are always discouraging the community from taking the law into their own hands. If a crime is committed, the community should call the police and let the officers do their jobs. It is a criminal offence to take the law into your own hands,” he added. No arrests have been made yet. The devasted mother, Jeaneth Chabalala.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za