News - Date: 23 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 544 The death of Mulweli Tshiwela and the injuries sustained by three other family members at Mvelaphanda Ha-Khangale outside Thohoyandou have angered residents. Mulweli (6), a Grade R pupil at Mahematshena Primary School at Dzwerani, was asleep with eight other family members when unknown people came there after midnight and knocked on the door of her aunt's house. It is alleged these people requested that the inhabitants open the door and come out, so that they could discuss work, but the family refused. The unknown persons left but came back at around 03:00. This time around, they were armed with petrol bombs. The first bomb was thrown through the main bedroom’s window but bounced back because it hit a wardrobe next to the window. They moved to another room and threw another bomb, which burnt down the whole house. Thanks to the efforts of a courageous neighbour, the nine inhabitants of the house were saved. Four were hospitalized with burn wounds. Mulweli, who was seriously burnt, was airlifted to the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto, where she later died. The three other members are still in hospital. The incident, which happened last week Tuesday morning, has angered residents who say there had been no crime before their patrol squad had been disbanded by the police. Local traditional leader Chief Solomon Mbangiseni Khangale said he was disgusted by the conduct of the police. "We used to have peace here with no crime taking place as we did our patrols. Police stopped us, saying it was illegal. Since we stopped, crime has risen, and the police are not doing anything about it. “Now we have lost a life through petrol bombs, and this would not have happened as criminals were afraid we would deal with them. They now know we are helpless, and we fear more lives are still going to be lost," he said. Munna Ndi Nnyi Men's Forum’s chairperson, Mr Bardwell Mufunwaini, who visited the bereaved family, said he was shocked that men were changing from protectors to monsters. "One life lost is far too much; just imagine if all nine people who were in the house were killed. Men are supposed to be providers to take care of families and not become killers," he said. The dead child's father, Mr Robert Tshiwela, was overwhelmed with grief. "As a father I am so saddened. She was a very cool girl and we never reprimanded her. I am just having hope that the police will crack the case and those responsible pay for their sins," he said. Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the incident. He said the cause of the fire was unknown at this stage. "Our investigations are ongoing and hopefully this will also reveal the cause of the fire. There are no arrests so far," he said. Burnt to ashes. Chief Solomon Khangale (with stick) and community leaders in one of the burnt-out rooms. Mulweli Tshiwela, who died after suffering severe burns when the house she was sleeping in was petrol bombed at Mvelaphanda-Dzwerani. Chief Solomon Khangale shows the window through which the bomb was thrown.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: