News - Date: 02 March 2018 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 124 Mapungubwe National Park and world Heritage site’s cheetah population is picking up after the birth of three new cubs in the recent past. According to SANParks, this success story is not only for Mapungubwe, but the country at large since the cheetah is classified as one of the threatened mammals. “The park is home to a sizeable cheetah population, but their numbers decreased from uncontrolled illegal hunting for their skin, even though they are seldom seen because of the thick mopani bush veld in some areas of the Park. However, since late last year, the animals have been spotted several times by rangers and tourists to the park, which makes it a great value-add to the tourist experience in the park,” said park manager Mr Conrad Strauss in a press release issued on Tuesday. This coalition, which is gaining popularity among the rangers and tourists, has been dubbed “mom and the trio”. They can be spotted on the western side of the park and, once found in an open space, tourists can enjoy the sighting for a lengthy time. Cubs depend on their mom for survival, so the “mom and the trio” are expected to be seen together for quite some time. “To spot this coalition and many other animals, one has to visit Mapungubwe National Park and World Heritage site, situated just 70km west of Musina in Limpopo Province. Over and above the sightings, a visit to the majestic Mapungubwe hill where the first African kingdom existed, as well as the world-class interpretation centre, is always a marvel,” said SANParks. The Mapungubwe National Park boasts three new arrivals in the form of three cheetah cubs that were born recently. The “mom and the trio” can be spotted on the western side of the park. Photo supplied.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za