News - Date: 03 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 440 Rain is normally a sign of good things and is regarded as a blessing to most farming and rural communities. For the Simango family of Ka-Nwadzekudzeku, however, it spelt doom and heartache as two family members were swept away by the raging flood waters of a normally small stream. The incident that has so shocked the village of Roadhuis near Malamulele happened on Sunday at around 18:40. The two people were travelling in a bakkie. They allegedly wanted to drive through the swollen stream but found it impossible. The bakkie was then swept away by the raging torrent. Mr Khazamula Philemon Simango (64) and Ms Joyce Chauke (46) drowned in the incident. First to be found was Ms Chauke, who was found on Sunday some distance from where the car had been swept away. Mr Simango was found on Monday some kilometres away. Ms Tiyiselani Simango, daughter of Mr Simango, said that the family was shattered. "We were together at home most of Sunday, but he left in the afternoon without saying where he was going. We were shocked to receive the bad news.” Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said that after receiving the sad news they had dispatched teams on a search operation until a female passenger's body had been retrieved, but the driver's body and the car had not been found. "The search operation for the driver and the car continued until Monday morning, and they were successfully retrieved. Police investigations are still continuing," he said. Ngoepe further made an appeal to members of the community to be extra cautious when crossing and swimming in dams, streams and rivers, because of the heavy rainfall which is still being experienced in several parts of the province. The bakkie in which the couple drowned. The bakkie that was swept away by the swollen stream.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: