News - Date: 24 March 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 160 “Shango la shaya Thovhele ndi mulano…” (Everyone does as he pleases in a land without a traditional leader). These were the words of Thovhele Ratshibvumo II Rambuda when installing the new headman (Vhamusanda) of Madimbo village, Vho-Lufuno Edward Rambuda, on Saturday. Thovhele Rambuda narrated the history of the leadership of the area to the new traditional leader: “From 1983, this village was under Rambuda. Although she is still alive, she raised concern that she has grown old and she could no longer execute her roles effectively as a senior citizen. We requested the family to nominate someone who would take over the responsibility, while at the same time working closely with Vho-Tshinakaho, and the family nominated you. We have no doubt that, as a new traditional leader, you will follow in your mother’s footsteps, because she had ruled this village with distinction for the past 35 years.” Thovhele Rambuda advised the new traditional leader to work with the various stakeholders to bring development to his village.  “By dressing you with this leopard skin, we are giving you full mandate to rule this village without any fear or favour. Take note that you have the full support of our tribal authority. Anyone who looks down upon you is obviously looking down upon me, the culture of the Vhavenda and the authority of the Rambuda Tribal Authority. We expect you to visit the traditional authority timeously to report on the developments concerning projects in your village.” The new headman was given the name Thiwelimulambo, (loosely translated: traditional leadership is not recognized on the other side of the river). His ndumi is Justice Rambuda and the khadzi is Tshifhiwa Rambuda. Musanda Vho-Thiwelimulamabo thanked his family and the Rambuda Tribal Authority for having trust in him. “I am prepared for the huge task ahead. With the assistance of the various stakeholders, I will be able to take this village to a higher level. My first project would be to set up a meeting with Musina Municipality to discuss issues relating to service delivery in my village. We want to make sure that each development we implement here is approved by the Rambuda Tribal Council and endorsed by the municipality.” Thovhele Ratshibvumo II Rambuda dresses the new headman of Madimbo village, Vho-Lufuno Edward“Thiwelimulambo” Rambuda with a leopard skin as a sign of giving him full authority to rule the village.  Email: