News - Date: 08 March 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 796 History will be made when a former drug addict, Rabelani Tshifaro, and her associates launch an organisation to help drug users and the families of those affected by drug use. The organisation is called Made New. The event will take place at the Worship House Church in Shayandima tomorrow (Saturday) and will start at 12:30. Rabe, as she is affectionately known, believes that the continued abuse of drugs is prolonged because people do not want to own up to addiction and seek help. “I have already shared my life story of a drug addict with so many people,” she said. “Being a survivor of drug addiction is a noble thing because few addicts ever turn their lives around for the better. However, it dawned on me that I shouldn't just be a survivor and not help other people who might be going through what I went through.” She invited other activists in different areas of community building to come and participate in the launch. Rinae Sengani Foundation's managing director, Rinae Sengani, said that Made New and the Rinae Sengani Foundation were sister bodies, working on empowering the youth. “We run campaigns together in the hope that our youth will lead meaningful lives,” Rinae said. “As a foundation, we are so proud of Made New for the kind of change that they have been bringing to the youth in Vhembe district. The dangers of drug use are real and Made New has just filled the long-existing gap of a drug-addiction help desk in the district.” Victim empowerment activist Rinae Sengani was among the key speakers during the Made New launch. Drug-addiction activist Rabe Tshifaro has launched her help organisation, Made New.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com