News - Date: 24 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 367 More than sixty members of the SAPS in Limpopo, who for years dedicated their lives to securing the lives and property of citizens, were on Tuesday rewarded with medals for their long and loyal service. The officers, whose ranks ranged from constable to lieutenant-colonel, received their awards from MEC Makoma Makhurupetje, who was assisted by King Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana, police commissioner Gen Nneke Ledwaba and Maj-Gen Christina Morakaladi. The event was held at the Thohoyandou Stadium. Makhurupetje commended the recipients for their dedication and loyalty to the organization. “You really worked hard, you made us very proud and you deserve the awards. It does not end here, please improve your qualifications as we need more officers with special skills,” she said. She added that the community should not panic as they have enough manpower to deal with the many protests taking place in the province. She also praised Gen Ledwaba for drastically bringing crime down saying it is a sign that they are not giving in to criminals. Capt Sydney Mashavhele (54), who has worked at different stations around the province in different capacities, said he was excited that his efforts and loyalty were at long last acknowledged. He received a medal for 30 years’ service. He is now head of the supply chain at Vuwani police station. “This is the highest reward I ever got, and it will motivate me and be a boost and make me work even harder,” he said. Royal praise. Sgt Robert Makushu of the Tshitale Police Station is being congratulated by King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana after receiving his ten-year medal. Looking on is the provincial police commissioner, Gen Nneke Ledwaba. MEC Makoma Makhurupetje handing over medals to police during the medal parade. The dignitaries inspecting a parade before handing over the medals.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: