News - Date: 05 March 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 217 Well-known Musina biker Evans Mudau, commonly known as Jah Rubza Vhadau, is aiming high to promote biking as an enjoyable sport for both young and old. Going by the name Diehard in the biking circles, Mudau is the founder and president of the Musina-based Beit Bridge Motorcycle Club (MCC) which now has 18 members. The club was founded in 2015. All members have their own motorcycles and they meet regularly to organize social gatherings and entertainment trips.

Born in Musina, Mudau fell in love with motorcycles at a young age. “I bought my first motorcycle in 2000 and the second one in 2004. I then went for the third one in 2010 and my latest one in 2017. I named my latest bike, a Suzuki GxserR 1000cc, Just one drop of Jesus Christ saved my life, because I survived several accidents since I had taken up biking as a hobby more than 17 years ago. I love my bike in such a way that I regard it as my second wife and I don’t allow anyone to ride it.” He adds that once he was involved in a serious accident and there were rumours that he was dead. “Since then, I always make sure that I put on the full safety kit before undertaking any trips. Despite that, I continued with the sport because it is the only love of my heart and something that I am best at.” Diehard says the longest two distances he has travelled with a bike are from Musina to Witbank and from Musina to Botswana. “I consider myself an average rider and I always encourage my fellow club members to adhere to the rules of the road. This sport is all about enjoyment and I’m happy that people are beginning to understand it.” Mudau says bedsides biking, members of his club engage themselves in community-building activities. “We always collect money and buy food for less-privileged families. We have also donated shoes and school uniforms for children whose parents cannot afford to provide. We are planning for other big community projects that will be endorsed during our annual general meeting which will take place in April.” He says he will not relax until his club achieves a total number of 50 members. “I encourage individual bikers to come and join us, because this is where we broaden our knowledge in terms of taking care of our bikes, road safety tips and advanced biking skills and techniques. Those who would like to be part of the club can gladly phone me on 079 017 9047.” The founder of Beit Bridge Motorcycle Club, Evans Diehard Mudau, does not enjoy anything more than riding his motorcycle.  Email: