News - Date: 29 March 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 317 Activities in Tshiozwi came to a standstill two weeks ago as scores of Lutheran Church members, family, friends and community members gathered to pay their last respects to one of the longest-serving religious leaders of the church, Vho-Tshinakaho Mudau Rabedzwana (106), who died after a long illness at her home on 8 March. She was buried during a high-profile ceremony at Tshiozwi village on Saturday, 17 March. During her funeral, held on a rainy Saturday, speaker after speaker described the good things the granny had done for the community and her family. According to church members, Rabedzwana was a good granny who helped everyone despite her circumstances. Her son, Samuel Rabedzwana, said: “My mother was very solemn, very restrained and very dignified. Her death has left us speechless, but we have to cope, because we have no choice. For so many years she served selflessly and faithfully in parishes throughout the country, and in those dark days she made herself available day and night to all who needed her,” he said. He eulogised her as someone who had lived life to the fullest. “My mother was everything to us. She made sure that all her children received education as she believed that it was the only tool that could bring development to the community.” On behalf of the Sinthumule Royal Council, Vhakoma Vho-Daniel Mavhandu said: “We are gathered here today with heavy hearts and we can’t remove the sadness that goes along with a gathering of this nature. The grief which the family is experiencing also touches us and we will always remember granny, because she had done so many good things for this community.” Rabedzwana leaves behind four children, 18 grandchildren and 38 great-grandchildren. Community and family members carry the coffin of the late Vho-Tshinakaho Mudau Rabedzwana (106).  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za