News - Date: 25 March 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 176 Many girls who cannot afford sanitary pads miss school days during their menstruation cycles and it has a negative impact on their school performance.

In an effort to help underprivileged girls who are missing school days due to menstruation, Miss Lufuno Mulaudzi has started a non-profit organization, My Sister, which focuses on keeping girls in school.

The organization was initiated in 2017. "Our research shows that 65% of the secondary school girls cannot afford sanitary pads and are forced to miss school during their cycles. That’s seven days of every month of not being in school," she said. "A girl’s confidence is everything, and being without sanitary pads can be stressful and affect a girl’s confidence and performance. My Sister’s role is to make girls feel confident about themselves and keep them in school."

She also said the organization aimed to respond to one of the primary aspects that affect a girl child’s success. "Women's empowerment does not starts with our opening positions in the employment world, but it starts with our keeping girls in school and making sure that they are confident enough to be leaders," she added. "I aim to achieve and make a success of this organization by reaching out to institutions with the same aim of empowering women and with the help of people around Limpopo," she said

At the moment, she asks for donations from friends and family to buy sanitary pads. “I want big institutions and the municipality to donate sanitary pads. The challenge that we face as an organization is getting more people who understand how serious this situation is and reach out to help."

The organization is based in Thohoyandou. "Those who want to donate can communicate with us through our Facebook page - My Sister - or phone me on 078 597 7380, Vhutshilo on 071 262 8025 and Faith on 065 930 2710," she said. Miss Lufuno Mulaudzi. Photo supplied .  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: