News - Date: 03 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1141 The scene at Kismat Wholesalers in Thohoyandou resembled an action movie on Monday. This was during a brazen robbery that took place in the presence of many shoppers and workers at the centre. According to information supplied to the paper, the robbery took place so fast that many only realised a robbery had taken place after hearing shots being fired. The incident happened at around 10:30. A manager at the wholesaler, who preferred to remain anonymous for security reasons, said they were about to go to the bank when the incident happened. "We were parked just here outside, waiting for a colleague to come with the money, when the robbers surprised her and snatched the money before speeding in the direction of Thohoyandou Block F. They took an undisclosed amount of cash with them," he said. Community leader and businessman Mr Ayub Madina said they were very concerned about the type of violence perpetrated against businesspeople in the area. "It has been some time that we last heard of a robbery here in Thohoyandou and now, out of the blue, this. These guys are ruthless; just imagine, they are disregarding the many people who were there. They are capable of anything, even if it means killing to have the money.” He further indicated they might have targeted a security firm’s cash van, which was to come in a few minutes, when they saw the woman with the cash. Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said a Polo Vivo, silver grey in colour, arrived with unknown suspects, who shot twice and flattened the right rear tyre of the car that was to be used to go to the bank. "One of the robbers grabbed the money bag and they fled the scene. No one was injured during the robbery," he said. The road near the scene of the robbery had to be cordoned off while forensic experts combed the area.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: