News - Date: 10 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 237 Hundreds of Seventh Day Adventist Church members and many community members filled a big tent erected outside the Phungo house at Mugumo village a fortnight ago. The multitudes were giving a dignified sendoff to one of the staunch members of the Seventh Day Adventist church at Dzindi, Ms Pauline Phungo. Phungo, who was described as an industrious woman, served as a deacon at the church and for the zone. She passed away after a long illness and was buried at the local Dzindi cemetery last Sunday. On behalf of the church, Mr Edward Makhavhu said the best way to mourn her death would be to follow what she had taught them. He urged women to stand up and pick up the baton Phungo had left and to carry on with her work as a way of mourning her. He further said as a deacon, she had looked after everything that belonged to the church, including hosting visiting pastors who visited the church. "She was not just an ordinary member, she was also a Dorcas leader who ensured that the less privileged were clothed and did not sleep on empty stomachs. She leaves this church as the mother of the church," he said. Makhavhu further indicated that Phungo had raised so many children and that it was not surprising that many who were grown-up had travelled from different parts of the country to bid farewell to her. Speaking on behalf of the children, Ms Alvinah Phungo said their mother was a role model to them and that she had taught them so many things in life. "We are what we are because of her and she will always remain in our hearts," she said. The Phungo family unveil the tombstone of their beloved Pauline during the funeral. Pall bearers carrying the casket of Ms Pauline Phungo to its final resting place.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: