News - Date: 26 March 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 95 Old age not only deserves respect, but care, love and attention from the communities where the elderly find themselves living. This became quite apparent when Nga Tshilidzi Old Age Care was launched in Tshikota outside Louis Trichardt last Friday. At least 100 elderly people attended the launch where they registered for membership – and also registered their challenges, concerns and needs as the aged living in the township. The organisation's director and founder, Ms Mercy Nchauba, indicated that the purpose of the organisation was to care for the aged and meet some of their social needs with regard to leading a healthy lifestyle. “We'll keep our aged busy with indigenous games, popular games such soccer and fun races, and cultural activities, such as traditional dance, and other artistic skills, such as beads-making and knitting,” she said. The Department of Social Development's representatives also supplied support to the project leaders and the aged. Vho-Johana Matshavha (83) expressed her joy and said that it was a relief that an old-age centre had come into existence for theTshikota residents. “Ri do awela u twa ro dzula hayani hu si na zwine ra khou ita (This project brings relief from our staying home all the time, doing nothing),” she said. “There's nothing that beats good company for any elderly who's above 70.” Another elderly person, Vho-Agnes Green, expressed appreciation towards the organisation's initiative to create a space for the aged to exercise. “Some of us don't even know how to exercise, but we are happy to learn what they will teach us and how to do it,” she smiled. Those interested in the activities of Nga Tshilidzi Old Age Care can contact them on 071 543 9370. The organisation's director and founder, Ms Mercy Nchauba (left), registers Vho-Johana Matshavha (83) in the organisation's books as a beneficiary of the project's programmes. Some of the old ladies, gentlemen, NPO leaders and stakeholders at the launch of Nga Tshilidzi Old Age Care last Friday.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com