News - Date: 04 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 305 Hundreds of angry women, all members of the ANC Women's League (ANCWL), from Tshimbupfe Ha-Mutheiwana in the Vuwani area have threatened to deal with an alleged rapist if the court granted him bail. This was during the appearance of Mashudu Mudau at the Vuwani Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Mudau (36), of Tshimbupfe, stands accused of raping a 21-year-old disabled woman. The incident happened in November 2017 and Mudau has since been in custody. During a short appearance, his case was postponed to 19 March. Before the appearance, many women and a member of the Vhembe ANCWL, Ms Constance Mphaphuli, handed over a memorandum of their grievances to the Vuwani Magistrate Court’s manager, Mr Moses Muravha. The leader of the women, Ms Julia Azwihangwisi Mukhaha, who is also the secretary of the Tshimbupfe ANC branch, said they were in court as concerned women. "We are very perturbed, as a young disabled woman was raped by a man known to her. We are here as angry women to support the famiĺy.” She added that the women wanted to tell the court that, should it grant Mudau bail, “we will not be responsible for what could happen to him. We are tired of being used as sex toys," she said. Mphaphuli said they were worried about the ever-increasing number of crimes against women. "As women we cannot just sit down as if nothing is happening.” In response to receiving the memorandum, the Vuwani Court Manager, Mr Moses Muravha, said he would take the memo to the relevant authorities. He commended the protestors for the way they conducted themselves. Protesting women outside the gates of the Vuwani Magistrate's Court. Vuwani court manager Mr Moses Muravha adresses the protestors after receiving the memorandum from ANC Tshimbupfe branch leader Ms Julia Mukhaha (left).  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: