News - Date: 23 March 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1007 The Makhado Air Force Base honoured Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana by bestowing the rank of honorary colonel on him. Last Wednesday’s event was attended by senior traditional leaders from different areas, chiefs, community members and soldiers. The Chief of the Air Force, Genl FZ Msimang, said that the Air Force Base must pay tribute to all the women and men who safeguarded and served the nation. “This is the time for us to remember brave women and men and also to remember the fallen heroes who have made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty,” said Msimang. Msimang said that the appointment of honorary colonels was an established tradition in the South African National Defence Force. He said that the title of honorary colonel was granted to citizens of the Republic of South Africa who were carefully selected and who had shown an interest in the readiness of the country’s National Defence Force bases or units. Msimang said that the presence of Ramabulana radiated hope to the Air Force and the local communities. “We know you will go the extra mile to make your presence felt as an honorary colonel to the air force base and the South African National Defence Force at large,” he said. When addressing people at the event and accepting the honorary rank, Ramabulana firstly thanked the officers at the air force base for bestowing this honour upon him. “I consider (this) not only as a personal honour, but as a token of recognition and appreciation of the struggle our people waged against oppression. More specifically, I take it as recognition and appreciation of the successes achieved by the South African government. This is indeed a recognition and appreciation of the outstanding calibre of the leadership of the senior traditional leaders around Venda,” he said. Chief of the Air Force General FZ Msimang shakes hands with the new colonel, Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana after the event. Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana joined the parade at AFB Makhado last week as an honorary colonel. Chief Livhuwani Matsila (left) congragulates the new colonel. Next to him stand the MEC for Health, Dr Phophi Ramathuba, Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana, Makhado Mayor Shonisani Sinyosi, the MEC for CoGHSTA, Jerry Ndou, and Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlophe.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za