News - Date: 26 March 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 96 Several anti-drug-abuse and -addiction stakeholders vowed to work hand in glove with New Made, a non-profit-organisation that rehabilitates drug addicts and helps the families of those addicted to drugs to deal with their loved ones on the way to rehabilitation. A former drug addict, Rabelani Tshifaro, and supporting stakeholders made history when she launched her organisation, Made New, at the Worship House Church in Shayandima on Saturday, 10 March. A representative of the SAPS, Const Hani Mutele, addressed the meeting on the prevalence of drug abuse among the youth in Vhembe District. He warned the youth about how uncomfortable and unpleasant prison is, should they find themselves in jail for crimes committed while they were under the influence of substances. “The crime rate has been seen to have risen because of young people engaging in drugs; in turn, they commit various crimes that might not have been committed had they not used drugs,” he said. A former drug addict, Rofhiwa Radzilani, shared his painful experiences as an addict and how it led to the loss of many things in his life. It affected his job, relationships and health, he said. “It was so severe that I even suffered from paranoia,” he said. “But by the Grace of God, I have been clean for two years now. I am now an engineer working at a well-known company. I am enjoying the life of a clean, normal person.” Another speaker, Mashudu Tshikororo, said drugs caused regression in a young person's life and its use led to a purposeless life. Pastor Takalani Mulangaphuma touched on the subject of the clinical side effects of drug addiction. As a former nurse with knowledge in clinical therapy, she warned the youth about the dangers of addiction and how it also affected a person spiritually. The representative from the South African National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (SANCA), Mr Raymond Komape, said Made New had embarked on a commendable job and that they would give the organisation their full support. Komape touched on the issue of how drugs affected the entire community. “The community needs to be more involved in the fight against drug abuse, because the use of drugs by one child can also spread to other kids in the community,” he said. “Therefore, it is our responsibility to help other kids struggling with drug addiction, regardless of whether the child is ours or not.” Companies that sponsored this initiative were Alumbi Events (decor), Zwivhuya Muthige Foundation (catering), Tshif Car Masters and DJ Mshivo. Const Hani Mutele addressed the attendees on the prevalence of drug abuse and its consequences among the youth in Vhembe District. In the photograph taken during the ceremony are (from left to right) Ntanganedzeni Tshifaro, Rabelani Tshifaro and Mokgadi Mudau. A play portraying a life of addiction left people begging for more. Rabelani Tshifaro speaks about her sad journey as a drug addict, the way to rehabilitation and her vision of assisting other addicts to see the light.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com