News - Date: 17 March 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 267 Last Saturday was a delightful day for Gogo Maria Gadisi, as many people joined to celebrate her 103rd birthday at Lamvi. A grandson, Mr Calvin Muthwanamba, said that the aim of the party was to show his grandmother that he, together with his brothers, sisters and grandchildren, loved her. "This is another way of showing appreciation to the senior citizens." The gogo has 5 children, 36 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren. The guest speaker, Bishop Isaac Dagada, said the celebration was a historic event. "A family who does not have senior citizens lacks advice, as they provide wisdom," said Dagada. He added that he wanted to thank the family for not sending their mother to an old-age home and for deciding to live with her "in the smooth pace" of their home. The gogo’s eyesight is deteriorating, but her good hearing and razor-sharp mind keep her days enjoyable. "We used to travel for long distances on foot because there were no cars," she said. “The elders spent most of their time tilling the land for food, and young boys and girls like us were responsible for looking after the goats and cows," she said. According to her, the secrets of her long life were eating healthy food and listening to the elders. "We spent most of the time playing indigenous games such as mufuvha and that kept our bodies strong. There were certain taboos that the elders told us not to do, and I believe that increased the days of our lives. I would like more generations to know about our times, although I believe that I will still live for many years to come. If you live a clean life, God will bless you and you will live long. Respect your elders and preserve your culture. Eat healthy food and distance yourself from alcohol,” she said. Gogo Maria Gadisi, photographed in front of her birthday cake.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za