News - Date: 12 March 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 76 Members of the community of Tshakhuma-Mutsindoni were over the moon when the Sumbanidila-project was recently opened. The project consists of toilets for the graveyard and the erecting of street -name signs. The event was led by Cllr Frank Tshililo of the Makhado Municipality as acting mayor and was also attended by sponsors, local traditional leaders, councillors and community members. The toilets and street-name signs were donated by the Gau-Flora group of companies and Twins Funerals. In an interview with Limpopo Mirror, Mr Mulalo Thabela of the Gau-Flora Group of Companies said that he felt that there was a need for him to express a sense of love in his heart. Thabela outlined that he had devoted himself to the community. “Members of the community that I serve are always close to my heart, and I will always care about them,” he said. He further said that he wanted to see the community grow. According to the Sumbandila project's chairperson, Mr Philip Mokoena, the donation caters for the community. Mokoena said he appreciated the efforts by the sponsors for the community members in the development. Traditional leader Vhamusanda Vho- Naledzani Thangavhuelelo praised the sponsors. “These are the poorest of the poor. Even though this is not enough for all the needy people, we lack words suitable enough to say thank you.” Cllr Frank Tshililo urged the community to support their businesses. “These are our people, people who remember the hand that feeds them. Let us pay back by supporting their businesses, so that, in turn, they will continue assisting the lot of our people in our midst,” he said. Photographed at the new toilets are (front to back) Cllr Frank Tshililo, Vhamusanda Vho-Naledzani Thangavhuelelo and Mr Unarine Tshipota from Twins Funerals.  During the official opening of the street-name signs are Mr Mulalo Thabela (sponsor),Vhamusanda Vho-Naledzani Thangavhuelelo, Cllr Frank Tshililo and Cllr Sadam Masutha.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za