News - Date: 15 March 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 469 Following a week of violent protests, students at the University of Venda (Univen) were ordered to vacate the university premises by the management. The students were protesting against the delayed payment of food and book allowances by the national student finance scheme, NSFAS. Univen spokesperson, Takalani Dzaga, criticized the destruction of property and the violence that broke out during the protest action. This was “because of the unacceptable action of some rogue elements,” he said. “In view of the deteriorating situation on campus the university management has decided to suspend the academic programme until further notice and instruct students to vacate the campus by 16:00 on Monday 12 March,” Dzaga said. Dzaga blamed the situation on a dysfunctional Student Representative Council (SRC). “The SRC has not met with the university management to raise issues of concern,” he said. Dzaga said that the management is disappointed with the behaviour of rogue elements among the protesting students who engaged in violent and destructive action. “Their actions caused damage, not only to municipal and campus infrastructure, but also to our university’s reputation. While ostensibly protesting for the right of the black child to free quality education, these rogue elements have seen it fit to disrupt the education of learners at schools in Thohoyandou and of our own students on campus,” Dzaga added. Univen spokesperson Takalani Dzaga. (Photo supplied )  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: