News - Date: 09 March 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 345 The community of Matangari outside Thohoyandou has been without a ruler after the death of Chief Ndidivhani Nyamande (64) in 2015. Last Saturday, this came to an end when hundreds of residents and others from neighbouring villages came in their numbers to witness the installation of a new chief of the area. The new chief, Mulindathavha Nyamande, was given the name Mutulagole. His khadzi is Tshinakaho Gloria Nyamande, while his ndumi is Alex Nyamande. Among the guests were religious leaders from the ZCC Church, pastors under the auspices of the Tshivhase Pastor's Forum and many traditional leaders. The event was held in four big tents erected at the local sports field. The installation rites were performed by Thovhele Vho-Denga Tshivhase. In installing the new chief, Tshivhase urged him not to be autocratic but to involve all structures and stakeholders in all decisions he takes. "There are elders here who are always ready to advise you and there is also the royal council. Listen to them and apply your mind before taking any decision and there will be development in your village, which your subjects so dearly need,” he said. The new chief said he was ready and would face the mammoth task ahead of him with the help of his subjects. "Poverty is rife here. We have to start creating jobs, and this could be done by starting self-sustaining projects. I have been moving around the village to find that many projects are now white elephants. We have to revive them to ease poverty in our village," he said. Nyamande further indicated that they had challenges when it came to roads and water, which should be addressed as a matter of urgency. "With Chief Livhuwani Matsila as mentor, we will never go wrong in terms of development. We will sit down with all the structures in the village and see how we move with speed to develop our area," he concluded. Chief Livhuwani Matsila welcomes the new chief,  Mutulagole Nyamande (with hat), to his new role as chief of Matangari. Thovhele Denga Tshivhase (right) performs the installation rites during the ceremony at Matangari.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: