News - Date: 22 March 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 3591 A cloud of mourning is hanging over the South African music fraternity and the academic sphere, following the death of the Face of Venrap in 2016, Humbulani Humblo Manenzhe (24). She died last Thursday in the Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital after a short illness. She started her primary schooling at Khogonyani Junior Primary School in 2002 and completed it at Muengedzi Primary School in 2007. Her excellent academic performance in class gained her a Sumbandila, scholarship which took her to Ridgeway College in 2008. Completing her matric in 2012, she acted for some time as a student teacher at Ridgeway Independent School. She then went to further her education at the University of Venda in 2014 and had enrolled for a Bachelor of Law degree (LLB). At the time of her passing, she was doing her final year for the degree and was the deputy secretary-general of the Muthu Ndi Vhathu Foundation. From early age to her tertiary life, she was very passionate about Tshivenda Rap music, which saw her being elected as the first Face of Venrap music. According to her many friends and supporters, she will be remembered for her humbleness and selflessness. She was always smiling and a confident young woman who gave of herself and her time to inspire and motivate the youth in the community. The founder of Vito Vibe Music, Mr Teddy H, said Manenzhe’s death was a terrible blow to the South African music industry. “Her music was unique, and she was a creative artist whose talent will be missed. She is irreplaceable, and we have learnt a lot from her. We will really miss her, but her contribution to music will remain to be enjoyed." Mr Ntsieni Magwala, the representative of the family, said that the family members were "still in shock after the untimely death". The family agreed that the death of the child was a great loss to them and the community. He said they had lost a jovial person who did not display any signs of stress. She is survived by her mother, her older sister and five nieces and three nephews. She will be buried at her home village of Tshikwarani tomorrow (Saturday). The event will start at 06:00. Young musician Humbulani Humblo Manenzhe is no more.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za