News - Date: 04 March 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 345 A lack of job opportunities has forced Nhlahla Shilenge (27) and Rhulani Mathebula (23) from Malamulele to sell kotas (sandwiches) in order to make a living. According to Shilenge, who is a founder of Van's Kitchen, the idea of starting the kota business started last year in December, after he had been looking for employment for many years, without success. "I told myself that, instead of going around looking for employment, I must create employment for myself," he added. "After completing my studies in information technology and mechanical engineering, I struggled to get a job. I then started selling kotas and the community supported me. What I have realised, is that many people spend time looking for job opportunities while we can create jobs for ourselves," he said. He added that after he had opened the kota business, Mathebula had come to him to ask if he could be his job assistant after he had also looked for a job for many years, without success. "I gave him a job and now he is no longer an employee, but we are business partners. He has been loyal to me," he said. "My aim is to open my business in all areas across the province and employ many people, so that they can put food on the table for their families". Mathebula described him a good person who always dedicates his time to his business. "He is business-minded and he always accepts new ideas from his customers and from me as his business partner. I hope that our business will grow and employ many people, " he said. Nhlahla Shilenge (left) and Rhulani Mathebula (right) are selling kotas to make a living. Nhlahla Shilenge (left) and Rhulani Mathebula (right) are selling kotas to make a living.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: