News - Date: 18 March 2018 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 236 The Vhembe District Municipality has donated two water tanks to the needy Mulaudzi and Ntshavheni families from Dididi village, outside Thohoyandou. Mr Jack Mulaudzi and Ms Ntshavheni Mukhavhuli are both disabled pensioners who cannot walk. Mulaudzi (79), who stays alone in his three-room house, uses a walking aid, while Mukhavhuli crawls on her knees. Their disabilities make collecting water from the taps in the main streets difficult for them. Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani says they decided to donate a 2 500-litre water tank and taps to each family to make sure that the two pensioners can access water in their yards. “As a caring government, we felt that we must help these families after learning about their challenges. We immediately felt that we must we must respond by supplying water tanks and taps, so that we can help to make their lives easier.” Radzilani, who officially handed over the tanks and taps to the two families on Monday morning, says it was important that family members and community help those who are in need around them. She has also urged businesspeople and those who can afford it to offer help. Mulaudzi, who became disabled in March 2017 after he had fallen and sustained injuries to his waist, says he is over the moon about the donation. “I used to pay people to fetch water for me. I even used my pension grant to pay people who did washing for me. Now I am going to save a lot of money as I will not pay for water collection anymore,” says Mulaudzi while adding that he is still strong enough to cook for himself. Mukhavhuli, who stays with her grandson, is equally happy about the donation. “I have been waiting for the connection of water inside my yard for some years. I am glad that my prayers have finally been answered,” says Mukhavhuli, who became crippled more than two decades ago after being struck with a rock on her head by a mentally disturbed man. Ms Ntshavheni Mukhavhuli also received a water tank and taps. Cllr Florence Radzilani greets Mr Mulaudzi before handing over the water tank and taps.  Email: