News - Date: 23 March 2018 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 1160 A 24-year-old woman was brutally murdered, along with with her three-year-old son, in the Thononda area in the Nzhelele valley. A third victim is recovering in hospital after being seriously injured during the attack. According to the police, it is believed that Ndamulelo Mushiyana and her son, Ramaligela Munisi, and the woman’s partner were sleeping when three unknown suspects broke into their house on Saturday, shortly before midnight. Without saying anything, the suspects attacked the woman and the child with a sharp instrument and hacked them to death. The 29-year-old partner was also attacked, but he was not killed. The suspects then fled the scene. The man was taken to hospital with serious injuries for medical treatment. According to the family spokesperson, Mr Freddy Makhado, who is grandfather to the deceased, “Mushiyana was sleeping with her son as her little sister was attending a night vigil.” He said that they had heard that Mushiyani had called a friend earlier that night, asking him to come to her place. She apparently told him that there was some trouble, but then her phone cut out. “Before the friend got to the scene, he met the suspects and they strangled him and then chopped him, leaving him with serious injuries,” he added. Mushiyana is survived by her son, who is six years old. Mushiyana and her son will be buried on Saturday at Thononda The provincial police spokesperson, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, confirmed the incident. “The motive behind this incident is still unknown. The suspects are also unknown and there has been no arrest,” he said. “Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of these suspects,can contact Brigadier James Espach at 082 576 0743 or the crime stop number 0860010111 or the crime line SMS 32211 or the nearest police station,” he said. Mr Freddy Makhado comforts his niece, Annah Sipholi, who is the mother of the deceased. Ramaligela Munisi Mushiyana Ndamulelo  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com