News - Date: 30 September 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 370 Members of the community and several traditional leaders around the Vhembe District witnessed the installation of the new chief of Tshikhwani village two weeks ago. The new chief, Mbulaheni Ramabulana, was finally installed as chief of the Tshikhwani village under Thovhele Vho-Rudzani Sinthumule. Ramabulana was installed in the presence of other traditional leaders, local politicians and hundreds of members from the local community and the surrounding areas. Chief Ramabulana succeeds Chief Tshiwandalani Johannes Ramabulana, who passed away in 2013. Thovhele Vho-Vele Kutama, who conducted the installation, said that a new chapter in the village leadership had started. He said the father of the new chief had been a hardworking man who had strived for the development of his village. He urged Mbulaheni Ramabulana to follow in his father’s footsteps because much still remained to be done to develop Tshikhwani village. “We want development in our area and we have taken the lead by starting community-driven projects. We hope that you will all follow suit, so that your subjects will reap the fruits of this democracy,” he said. He urged the new chief to look after the interests of the poor and urged the community to give the utmost support and respect to their leaders. He advised the new chief to work for the people and to support the government. He told him to refrain from bad habits, stressing that political parties should respect their chief since they are the leaders of their communities. The mayor of Vhembe District Municipality, Cllr Florence Radzilani, said that she attended the ceremony to emphasise the strength of the relationship between traditional leaders and politicians. “When I know the leader in this community, it helps us (politicians) to deliver service in a transparent manner and to understand the needs of the people,” said Radzilani. Chief Mbulaheni Ramabulana said it was a great day for his people and that he was aware of the challenges ahead of him. He said his immediate attention would be to engage the relevant authorities to develop the village.  From left to right are Makhado Mayor Shonisani Sinyosi, the newly installed chief Mbulaheni Ramabulana, Dr Stanley Radzilani and Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za