News - Date: 24 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1036 Former army general Abel Nelwamondo served for several years as the county’s military attaché in China. During his stay there, he also studied how the Chinese ran their economy. When he resigned from the SANDF in 2014 after 33 years’ service, Nelwamondo had a vision to empower his people by providing them with meaningful employment. His decision was a gain for the people of Limpopo. He founded a company, Punda Maria Bricks and Pavers, where he is applying what he learnt in China.  He presently employs more than 150 employees from nearby communities, who were previously unemployed. His efforts to better the lives of residents have not gone unnoticed. His company became the provincial winner in the category for Emerging Manufacturing Sector during the 2018 Limpopo Productivity Awards held in Polokwane last week. He is to compete nationally with other businesses, representing Limpopo in Johannesburg next month. Last Friday, the humble businessman brought the awards to his business, where a celebratory function was held. During the event, Nelwamondo said he had received the awards alone in Polokwane and felt he would be selfish if he took this as a personal victory. "I did not win these awards alone. These are the people who make things happen, and I am only the face of the company. This is a team effort and that is why we are celebrating together," he said. He further indicated that the awards were a big boost to the staff and that they were determined to do even more. "We are very confident that we will not come back empty handed from Johannesburg. We will make this province very proud and bring back the honours," said Nelwamondo. Former army general Abel Nelwamondo (third from right) celebrates the awards with staff at the company's premises.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: