News - Date: 09 September 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 272 The idiom that “it takes a community to raise a child” was recently amended to “it takes a church to build a community” when the True Worship Christian Centre brought together Grade 12 pupils from Tshiungulela Secondary School for a motivational session. The speakers, among others, included Dr Cathrine Selepe, Tshililo “Binghi-Ras” Khanari, and Dr Murendeni Sikhau. In 2017, Tshiungulela Secondary School obtained a paltry 33% matric pass rate, which placed it among some of the most dysfunctional schools in the Vhembe District. The church, however, wanted to contribute towards bettering the pupils’ pass rate in this academic year. “As the church we are obsessed with real change,” said the head of youth ministry in the church, Pastor Ndivhuwo Sikhau. “We don’t want to assist those who are already well off. We seek to focus on those whom the community has forgotten about. Therefore, we chose Tshiungulela Secondary School and we believe our intervention will help get this school out of the list of ill-performing schools in Vhembe.” The church decided to adopt the school at the beginning of the year and already the adoption seems to be bearing fruit. “The more than 40 pupils who will be sitting the much-awaited year-end examinations were given a worthy moral uplifting as speaker after speaker engaged them on different topics, ranging from studying techniques to time management and sacrificing,” he said. Dr Cathrine Selepe said she was happy to be part of the event. “We are walking in the footsteps of Nelson Mandela,” she said. “Mandela loved children and he always emphasised that caring for the future had to start with caring for the youth, and this is exactly what we are doing.” The school’s principal, Mr Frank Rathogwa, said that it was a hard-hitting motivational session that pupils were exposed to, and that they had benefited. “I wished I was a learner myself,” Rathogwa said. “I am very grateful to the church for having picked us. This intervention will surely take us far.” The event was held under the leadership of Apostle Muladzashango Mudau and Snr Pastor Elias Mudau, who also encouraged the pupils to pull up their socks. Dr Cathrine Selepe is happy to be part of the event that aims to uplift the pupils' morale and encourage excellent year-end marks.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com