News - Date: 24 September 2018 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 582 Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani visited the village of Zwigodini, outside Mutale, two weeks ago.

The visit formed part of the district’s imbizo and Radzilani first officially opened the Zwigodini Water Project before she proceeded to the local soccer ground where she listened to community members who raised different matters related to service delivery.

The imbizo was also attended by, among others, Chief Nduvheni, Chief Mutele, Mayor Mihloti Muhlophe of Musina and Lt-Gen Temba Matanzima, the military ombudsman. Chief Mutele revealed to Radzilani that his area was rated lowest in terms of the crime rate but lamented that his area was rated lowest in terms of service delivery. He also appealed to Radzilani to help in the upgrading of the road from Tshipise to Tshirunzini. He also urged her to use her powers to stop the de-bushing of Mopani trees by people who are harvesting firewood from far-flung areas.

Many of community members told the executive mayor that they needed water, RDP houses, access roads, a cell phone network, jobs, toilets, fencing of graveyards, community halls, bridges, funding for community projects, a library, a community hall, a college and a hospital.

Representatives for the Department of Health said the NHI was the body handling all needs such as building clinics and hospitals and this was controlled at national level. The representatives warned that Limpopo has the highest number of health facilities, compared to other provinces, which will make it difficult for the community to see their wishes granted.

A representative from the Department of Transport said they would see how they could address the community's needs.

Cllr Mafela said that 400 RDP houses had been allocated for seven wards under Musina Local Municipality for this financial year. Each of the wards would get fifty houses, while the remaining 50 would be given to the Athens mayor’s office to allocate them to needy families, such as child-headed families and orphans.

Mafela said the network problem would be forwarded to Icasa. In connection with jobs, Mafela said that no allocation for Community Works Programme jobs had been made, but Pres Ramaphosa was envisaging the creation of jobs through the Makhado-Musina ECZ. 
The matter of the library and stadium would be considered through the IDP, he said.

Cllr Mawela said that the drilling of boreholes could not be addressed at that time. “It is difficult for us to drill boreholes for every village, because of technical and geographical challenges,” he said, while urging the community to share available water. Mayor Florence Radzilani officially opened the  Zwigodini Water Project before she met the community at an imbizo held at a local soccer ground. Photo supplied.  Email: