News - Date: 02 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 144 Learners and educators at the high-riding Lwamondo Secondary School, which has been producing excellent results for years, will no longer have to fight for chairs and desks after the Kagiso Trust donated R250 000 to the school. In June, the school celebrated its 50th year of existence. During the celebrations, the lack of proper desks and chairs was discussed, and many people pledged money to the school. The first to challenge others was King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana, who donated R30 000 to the school. During his address to the meeting, Rev Zwo Nevhutalu congratulated the school on improved results and then announced that the Kagiso Trust would assist the school with R250 000, which would be utilised in whatever way the school deemed a priority. Earlier this week, a delegation from Kagiso Trust, led by its CEO, Mankodi Moitse, arrived at the school and presented the cheque of R250 000 to the school. Speaking during the handover, Moitse said they were part of the school's 50th anniversary celebrations as they had helped the school before. "Since we started our relationship with the school, we were highly impressed by the fact that, despite the odds, the school has managed to improve drastically in terms of results.” The acting circuit manager of education for Lwamondo, Ms Takalani Thivhafuni, commended Kagiso Trust for the good job they are doing in improving rural schools. "The department is doing its best to make learning and teaching conducive, but we will always welcome support from the private sector, like what Kagiso Trust is doing," she said. The principal of the school, Mr Tshimangadzo Tshubwana, could not hide his excitement. "We have many challenges here, and one of them is a lack of furniture. Our learners fight for chairs and tables, but now this will be history. We lack words suitable enough to thank Kagiso Trust as that challenge will be addressed now," he said. Kagiso Trust officials, the school management and representatives from the Lwamondo royal council proudly show the cheque during the handover.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: