News - Date: 29 September 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 811 The CEO of the Engineering Council of South Africa, Mr Sipho Madonsela, made a call for the country to celebrate the women who work tirelessly to contribute to the engineering sector. He stated that equal recognition for women and men in the engineering sector was paramount to transformation in South Africa. This was said in an opinion statement issued by Madonsela as part of celebrating Women's Month. He said that it was high time people and companies started recognising female engineers, because they were hard workers who equally knew their work. “The role of women in the engineering sector is no different from that of a male,” he said. “Both sexes contribute to the economy of the country in the same way through developing infrastructure that provides basic services such as energy, water, food security, transport, communication and access to education and health care. Furthermore, both sexes possess the same capabilities that will bring change to the country.” He added that it made one seem ignorant when the issue of gender equality, particularly in the engineering sector, was not raised or even discussed to ensure that, even though the sector was male-dominated, each individual operating within it received equal recognition. A 24-year-old resident of Tshirenzheni, Murendeni Ramusetheli, studied electrical engineering (heavy current) at Tshwane South College (2013) and completed her diploma and trade test as an electrician in 2017. “I am currently working as an operator at Ford Motor Company, where we build and manufacture cars,” she told Limpopo Mirror. “My work requires teamwork, self-dedication and working under pressure. Society has a negative perception about women and hard work. As women, we are undermined that we cannot fix electricity or be an engineer. Hard work such as engineering is usually referred to or associated with men, which is totally wrong.” She indicated that female engineers were few, because the problem was that women were undermined and were discouraged from doing engineering because they were told that this was not women's work. “For example, they will say that a woman is not capable of fixing overhead cables or climbing poles,” she said. “They think it's men's duty. Even at home, parents still discourage female children from doing engineering courses at school.” She urged females to consider doing engineering. “Lastly, I can say: ‘Young ladies, let's do engineering in great numbers. We can do it and we are able’.” Another woman, Seani Pandelani (24), said she had been studying engineering for three years and she was finding the experience thrilling and devastating. “There has been a lot of challenges that kept testing my love for engineering, but all these were worth going through,” she said. Seani had learned from fellow female engineers who had already made it in the industry that the biggest challenge for many female engineers was that they were underestimated and were scarcely being given an opportunity to take on challenging responsibilities. “As a woman you are in a way seen as a risk in the work place,” she said. “It's just a negative stereotype – where women are associated with simpler tasks. My line of work entails improving, developing and initiating growth of the built environment and operational infrastructure, talking from the structural side of civil engineering.” She added: “I think having women in the industry has been inevitable; however, we are still not treated according to our knowledge and skill set. In a way, it's a blessing in disguise because it channels you to be patient, observant and brings out the problem solver in you.” In conclusion, Madonsela stated that women needed to be equally recognised in this field and to be celebrated for their achievements when they hold leadership positions in the industry. “We need to celebrate and give them accolades when they become part and win the international design competitions, not because they are women, but because they are engineers,” he said.  Ms Seani Pandelani says that all challenges in the engineering sector are worth facing. Photo supplied. The CEO of the Engineering Council of South Africa, Mr Sipho Madonsela. Photo supplied.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com