News - Date: 24 September 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 408 The Evangelical Presbyterian Church in SA (EPCSA) hosted its very first biennial conference, which was held in the Church Conference Centre at Valdezia a fortnight ago. The theme of the event was That they may be one as we are one (John 17:22). The EPCSA's moderator, Right Rev Shirilele Patrick Nyambi, addressed the multitudes of congregants and encouraged them to “think bigger than discussing issues that need to be given to Sunday School [youths] to deal with". He further pointed out that the conference was meant, among other things, to celebrate the unification of the church, which had experienced 36 years of division. “We are celebrating unity that we seek,” he said. He further commissioned church members to go and work for the church without expecting any reward from it. “The God that you serve in this church will give you all the desires of your hearts.” Artists who entertained the people during the event included (Dr) Thomas Chauke, Andy Masiye, Manana Twala, and the Elimburg Brass Band. The Lydia Xihlomulo Memorial Order for Bravery was awarded to Pres Cyril Ramaphosa and Mr Patrice Motsepe. The award is named after the local church's first convert, and is the highest award in the EPCSA. The Saturday programme started with a 5km walk with Rev Laurel Betty Kubayi. During the service, a variety of speakers addressed the congregants and awards were given to church members who went the extra mile in making the difference in the church of God and the community at large. Rev TJ Mayayise preached a prophetic sermon of unity and read from Psalm 133. He stressed the fact that when the church members were united and were living in harmony, they would not lack any of the heavenly blessings. "When I close my eyes, I see Valdezia as a Holy City with guest houses, shopping complex and a Medi-clinic,” he said. “I see major developments in this place.”   The Rt Rev Shirilele Patrick Nyambi (third from left) was photographed with some church members. Some of the thousands of youths who attended the Evangelical Presbyterian Church in SA's biennial conference at Valdezia.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com