News - Date: 23 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 499 Chief Mahandana Mabidi of Mabidi outside Vuwani praised businessman Ramabulana Nesengani for having thought of his community by hosting a soccer tournament in his village. Mabidi was speaking during the annual Ramabulana Youth Development Tournament, held in partnership with the Faranani Youth Development Centre that was founded by Nkhume Sithagu. The tournament was held at the Mabidi Mighty Green grounds on Saturday and the final was on Sunday. As promised, Ramabulana Nesengani of LPT Davhana Funeral Services increased the number of teams from four to eight this year. In line with the vision of the organisers, who aim to bring the youth from the streets and bring the community together at least for a day, the bumpy grounds were full, a true indication that the locals were hungry for entertainment. Disco Stars beat Mighty Green 2-1 in the finals. They received R2 000, medals, a trophy and a soccer kit while the runners-up received a soccer kit. Nesengani, who has become a symbol of hope among the youth, said it was not all about money, but the development of the youth by taking them away from the streets and nurturing their talents. "We are excited that the tournament is growing, and our plan is to host all clubs in the Vuwani area, where we will invite officials from the PSL and NFD to scout for talent during these games,” he said. Co-sponsor Ms Nkhume Sithagu of Faranani Youth Development Centre said she decided to partner Nesengani because they had the same vision of developing the youth. "This is the start of a marriage that will benefit the youth of this area, and we are confident that, together, we will do more for our youth," said Sithagu. She added that they were planning another tournament during the festive season.  Man of the match Israel Manenzhe (right) receives his award from Chief Mahandana Mabidi. Sponsor Ramabulana Nesengani (left) looks on. The winners Tshimbupfe Disco Stars celebrate after beating Mabidi Mighty Green in the finals. Also in the photo are the sponsor, Mr Ramabulana Nesengani (3rd from left)  and Chief Mahandana Mabidi (4th from right).  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: