News - Date: 02 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1440 The killing of a two-year-old boy at Lwamondo Ha-Mugomeli has left the community and the boy's family in shock. Gundo Maphangwa was found dead by family members at around 02:00 on Wednesday morning. He was allegedly killed by his mother in the outside rooms where they were staying. The boy's aunt, Ms Mavis Maphangwa, said it all started on Sunday when the mother started behaving strangely. "We had to call her husband back from Tzaneen after realizing that things were not going well with her. He arrived on Monday evening and everything seemed fine. On Tuesday, we realized that she was not home with two of her children.” She said that they were later surprised and shocked to see her walking naked in the company of community members with her two children, who were also naked. “We tried giving her clothing, but she refused, and we called the police. They came but did not take her away," she said. Maphangwa said that she heard noises in the middle of the night and, upon enquiring about what was happening, she found that the woman was naked again and allegedly suffocating the young boy. According to her, the child “was killed at the spot.” She said that they had stayed with the mother for many years and that she had never behaved the way she was doing. “We are consoled by the support we are getting from the councillor and other family members," said Maphangwa. The councillor for Ward 34 in the Thulamela Local Council, Mr Mbulaheni Ndwakhulu, said the police had failed them. "How can they leave a person who is visibly insane at home, when they could see she was not in her right mind? They were supposed to have taken her to the hospital or for counselling. This could have been averted. We have now lost a future leader, and this is saddening to us as a community," he said Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the incident and condemned acts of violent crime perpetrated against children in the strongest terms. He said the motive behind the incident was still unknown, but the ongoing police investigations would tell. The suspect will appear in the Vuwani Magistrate's Court soon on a charge of murder. “Members of the community are still advised and encouraged to consult their local relevant professionals for intervention in case of any socially related situation, instead of resorting to violence. Our investigations are still continuing," he said.  The Maphangwa family members are consoled by Councillor Mbulaheni Nndwakhulu (fourth from left) for the loss of the two-year-old boy.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: