News - Date: 15 September 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 420 Ms Lusani Antoinette Davhula from Tshakhuma Luvhalani village is a semi-finalist of the Miss Eagle South Africa (MESA) competition.

The 23-year-old is a co-founder of ABC solutions, which is a mentoring and tutoring programme for high school learners. At present she is pursuing a BSc degree in human physiology, genetics and psychology at the University of Pretoria. 

According to Davhula, MESA is a women's empowerment contest using the “beauty with brains and purpose” platform to empower young women to grow and develop themselves by making a positive impact in their communities. "The core reason I joined the this beauty pageant was that I noticed from a young age that I was born a philanthropist and would like to grow myself in that direction. Widening my horizon as I meet with different people with various perspectives on life is an eye-opener to me," she said. She also mentioned that she found great pleasure in helping others, as God blesses the hand that gives. "I believe that we rise through lifting up others. I have been in and out of the Tshakhuma drop-in centre, which is a day-care centre and caters for young kids to teenagers who have poor backgrounds," she added.

She asks for support from different communities to vote for her by SMSing "Lusani" to 35334. An SMS costs R3 each. The event will take place on 17 December at Sun Coast Casino, Hotel and Entertainment in Durban. Lusani Antoinette Davhula. Photo supplied .  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: