News - Date: 28 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 601 Despite continued assurances by the Vhembe District Municipality (VDM) that the more than R300 million that was invested with the embattled VBS will not affect service delivery, the fire services department in the municipality seems to be in a state of collapse. This incapability became evident during recent fires that broke out at different areas in the municipality. At almost all the fires that the fire department attended, the success rate left much to be desired. In most cases, the fires burnt the properties to the ground while residents watched in disbelief. A month ago, the luxurious, multimillion-rand Joe Matsila Guest House at Matsila outside Vuwani was demolished by fire. Nothing was saved. Three weeks ago, rondavels belonging to a late traditional leader at Vhufuli were razed by fire when firefighters failed to contain it. Recently, a house belonging to well-known reggae musician and former Muvhango actor Mr Jacky Nethomboni was also destroyed by fire at Tshisahulu. Even though the Ramushwana Fire Station is just a stone’s throw away from Tshisahulu, the musician's house was completely gutted, and nothing was saved from it. A fortnight ago, the Johannesburg fire department had to use a fire truck from Capricorn District to carry the casket of the late fireman, Meshack Muedi, during his funeral at Dzwerani as Vhembe did not have a truck. In the most recent fire, on Monday, community members watched in disbelief at the Kalahari Inn Sibasa as the rondavels at the inn were engulfed in flames, causing thousands of rands in damage. Firefighters were also not spared as they stood helpless because their water trucks ran empty. The fire, which allegedly started in one of the rondavels, soon spread to other rondavels. Two water tankers from private construction companies arrived with water to help contain the fire, but immense damage had been caused by then. Many of the people who were at the scene of the fire put the blame squarely on the VDM. "This is poor service and we are blaming our municipality. They have no capacity to fight fires. We saw this fire starting with only one rondavel, but it soon spread as these fire engines ran out of water. The fire could have been contained and not spread to other houses, had they not run out of water. What surprised us is that other engines arrived, but they too did not have water," said a resident on the scene. He said they could see the firefighters were doing their best, but their hands were tied as they did not have adequate equipment. VDM’s spokesperson, Mr Matodzi Ralushai, said that their team of firefighters had responded swiftly. "We can confirm and accept that we have some challenges, but owners of buildings should also ensure compliance. There is still also a need for awareness campaigns, because our communities are still negligent when it comes to fire. We still find bushes around buildings which become fertile grounds for uncontrolled fires," he said. Ralushai also confirmed that they had purchased two more fire trucks to beef up the existing fleet. He urged communities to be more vigilant against uncontrolled fires. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe told Limpopo Mirror that they were busy investigating the fire, but no foul play was suspected at this stage. “Whoever has any information about this fire can help by supplying that information, using our police crime line SMS 32211.” One rondavel at Kalahari Inn is engulfed in flames. Firefighters try in vain to fight the flames at Kalahari Inn in Sibasa. Private water tankers assisted in trying to contain the flames at Kalahari Inn in Sibasa.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: