News - Date: 09 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 841 A Tsianda granny said she was still shocked to the core, following an unwelcome visit by a hostile baboon at her home. Granny Johanna Mukoti (68) of Tsianda-Mashamba said she was alone when the unwelcome visitor made a surprise visit at her home. "It was around 07:00 when this big baboon came. I was already preparing a bath when I went out of my room to be met by this monster. I ran outside, and the baboon proceeded to my sitting room where he ransacked the whole sitting room, breaking furniture and other stuff there. "A neighbor shouted for help and community members came to support me. Police and nature conservation officials were called and killed the animal, which was becoming very hostile," she said. Mukoti said she was still shocked after the incident and did not eat the whole of Monday. "This monster could have killed me, had I not run outside the house. The worst part of it is that it also left a trail of destruction here. My furniture and my other utensils were broken by this angry creature and, as you can see, I am not working and replacing them will be difficult," said Mukoti. Ms Precious Makena, ward representative of Ward 29 of the Makhado Municipality, who also arrived at the house, said she had heard about this wild baboon, which was terrorizing the community. "It was spotted at Tshakhuma Fruit Market and later we heard that it was at another house here at Tsianda before it sought refuge here. We are just happy that no one was hurt," she said. Cllr Saddam Masutha of Ward 4 of the Makhado Local Municipality said it was the first time he had seen a baboon in a house. "The community is still shocked as this is very unusual," he said. Masutha said they waited for the nature conservation people to arrive as they wanted it to be captured alive, but it became so hostile that they had to put it down Granny Johanna Mukoti (left) and  Ms Precious Makena look at the broken furniture inside the house at Tsianda. A glimpse of the dead baboon.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: