News - Date: 30 September 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 1208 The family of a 25-year-old man is in shock after he had lost an eye and a hand in an attack. In an incident at Mushungwa tavern in Maniini Block L on Saturday night, Mukovhe Richard Nyadzani was allegedly drinking liquor when another man came over and they started to argue. According to Nyadzani’s mother, Ms Suzan Nyadzani, the two men fought for some time before the other man left the tavern, only to return a moment later with a mob of men who allegedly all attacked Mukovhe. "From what I had heard, they beat him with anything they could lay their hands on, until he was unconscious," she said. A report indicates that one of the women who were around stopped a patrolling police vehicle and alerted the police about the incident. "When they saw the police approaching, the attackers fled the scene," she said. "They had stripped him naked and he had lost the ability to use his voice when they took him to Tshilidzini Hospital." However, the mother had not visited her son so far because the incident has left her shocked and terrified. "He called me on Tuesday morning, begging me to come to see him, but I was so horrified when he informed me that he had lost his one eye and a hand," she said, and cried. "An official at the hospital had requested me to be strong and come to see him, because Mukovhe was in a condition that no real mother could watch and remain sane." The provincial police's spokesperson, Col Moatshe Ngoepe, confirmed the incident and said that no arrests had been made at this stage, but the police's investigations were continuing. The injured Mukovhe Richard Nyadzani.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com