News - Date: 03 September 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 500 A 23-year-old resident of Zava village in the Giyani area, Khanyisa Malungana, has won a True Shine Award. The event was held at the Premier Hotel in Midrand, Gauteng, last Saturday. She was nominated for the award by members of the public a month ago. The awards were brought and hosted by a non-profit organisation known as Every girl has a dream and were sponsored by Avroy Shlain. The award aims to recognise and honour young women who are making a difference in their communities through community work. “This award is a confirmation that I am on the right track and I should own my path as a model and community builder, because this is where I will make the greatest impact,” she said. “I am proud to have represented my community and to continue to do so, and I share my shine with them.” Khanyisa is one woman who is living her dream as a professional model. A marketing management student at the Vaal University of Technology, Khanyisa is also a brand ambassador for a photography company known as A Images. “I am from an inspiring family, a family of go-getters,” she said. “My brothers include DJ Gami Swaga and Akani Malungana, who is the founder of A Images. We were raised in such a way that we were consistently encouraged to follow our passion and all other routes that may seem to be unrealistic dreams to others.” Khanyisa has won some enviable pageants, which include Miss Giyani 2015. She continues touching the lives of less privileged people through donations via her Khanyisa M Foundation.  Khanyisa Malungana has won a True Shine Award. Photo: A Images. Ms Shonisani Masidwali (left) and Ms Nonhlanhla Mdluli (right) hand an award to Khanyisa Malungana (middle). Photo: A Images.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com