News - Date: 20 September 2018 Written by: Tracy Ngobeni / Viewed: 667 The death of the 21-year-old Khuliso Khosa, who was found in the road next to ward councillor Musandiwa's house, left the community fuming with anger. The badly injured young man was discovered last Monday at N'wa Xinyamani. Khosa died in Elim hospital when he was about to be transferred to the Polokwane hospital. He was found lying in the road by one of the taxi drivers who transport school children in the morning. According to councillor Phineas Musandiwa, he was shocked to hear that a young man was lying next to his home. “I received a call from one of the taxi drivers who transport school children in the morning,” he explained. They quickly went out to investigate. “The young man was bleeding through his mouth and there was blood at the back of his head. He had been dumped between my house and (the house of) Ndyelo, the traditional leader in the village,” he said. Musandiwa said he tried involving the police, but they refused to come to the scene. “We were told to call an ambulance, because they couldn’t make it to the scene,” he said. The local radio station (Hlanganani FM) was later used to try and locate the family of Khosa. “When I went to check on the boy at the hospital in the afternoon, I saw that his family had been found. The condition the boy was in was terrifying, because he spent two days in ICU,” said Musandiwa. He complained that crime had taken over the village and accused the police of not responding when they were needed. “We are scared because we know every day that when we receive calls from the residents, someone has been murdered. We have become our own police and investigators. As a community leader I feel helpless and scared at the same time. Instead of focusing on primary objectives like water and electricity matters, we are here fighting crime. We are doing nothing rather than solving crime,” lamented Musandiwa. Rhandzu Khosa, Khuliso’s sister, said that the family were struggling to cope with the loss. “We are heartbroken. We don't know what to do because the perpetrators are still roaming the streets freely,” said Khosa. Waterval police spokesperson W/O Foster Rambau said a murder case had been opened by the police. “The deceased was assaulted and stabbed multiple times before they left him on the road. The suspects are not yet known and the investigations are ongoing,” said Rambau.  Tracy Ngobeni is a 20-year-old intern who is doing her final year in journalism at Tsh­wane University of Technology. She was born and bred in Olifantshoek. She started her journalism career in 2017, after submitting her articles to the Record Noweto Newspaper in Pretoria. Her heart beats for print media because she believes that writing can heal reader's souls.  Email: chabalalan98@gmail.com