News - Date: 30 September 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 224 A disabled gogo of Tshikota and her 20 family members were over the moon on Saturday when the MEC for Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs, Mr Jerry Ndou, officially presented them with a furnished four-roomed house, donated by the ANC Women’s League of Ward 7 of the Makhado Municipality. The disabled gogo, Sarinah Tlou, and members of her family shared living and sleeping conditions in a dilapidated shack with no proper floor. The roof of the house is also threatening to fall in. Ndou commended the Women’s League for aiding the province in reducing the housing backlog. “The women have set a very good trend, and we encourage other businesspeople to follow in the women’s footsteps. As a developmental government, we need assistance from various stakeholders, including businesspeople, to deliver efficient services to our people." Ndou said that it was a dream come true and that he would continue to engage other businesspeople in developing this province. According to the secretary of the ANC Women’s League in Ward 7, Ms Skenkie Tshidavhu, the donation of the house is historical because it is the first time that a women’s organisation has assisted a struggling family in such a way. “We decided to build this family a modern house. Most of the time here in our municipality, houses are donated either by businesses, churches or non-government organizations.” Gogo Tlou said that it was the happiest day of her life. “No words can express my happiness and gratitude. I really thank the Women’s League and everyone who contributed to the realization of my dream of owning a decent house.”  MEC Jerry Ndou cuts the ribbon to officially open the house. Second from right is the secretary of the ANC Women's League branch for Ward 7, Ms Skenkie Tshidavhu, as well as Cllr Martha Babadu, Bisto Rasesu, Cllr Rachel Malange and, in front, is gogo Sarinah Tlou.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za