News - Date: 23 September 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 1071 “The fact that Musina Local Municipality is a provincial growth point, a special economic zone, and its strategic location as a border municipality count as advantages for becoming a city in the near future. Government will give full support to this municipality, because its growth benefits everyone in South Africa.” These were the words of Dr Zweli Mkhize, the Minister of Cooperative Governance, Housing Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta). Mkhize was addressing a delegation from Musina Local Municipality (MLM) in parliament in Cape Town last Thursday. The meeting was convened to discuss, among others, MLM’s overview, future growth and development. Mkhize said it was gratifying to see the leadership of MLM seeking assistance in planning the municipality’s growth and development. “The government, in particular my department, intervenes in cases where the leadership of different municipalities are fighting political squabbles, positions and other things that are not related to service delivery. I’m very happy that I’m here today to assist the municipality to grow, instead of intervening in petty activities that do not benefit ordinary community members. I hope other municipalities will learn from Musina Municipality that the focus should be on future growth and community development instead of focussing on political battles. I’m really impressed with the good and focused leadership of Musina Local Municipality.” Mkhize said he would work with his team to give the necessary support to MLM. “Assistance does not only come in the form of finance. Where we cannot source finance, we will make sure that we connect you with the relevant stakeholders.” Mayor Mihloti Muhlope touched on the strategic advantages of the municipality, challenges and proposed interventions, proposed projects and costs, urgent needs of the municipality and recommendations on how the municipality can be assisted. She said the municipality had the potential to grow, based on its stable political environment. “The municipality is situated on the busiest border post in the sub-Saharan area and is the second busiest port of entry in Africa after OR Tambo. Venetia Mine is the largest producer of diamonds in South Africa.  There is also a suitable landing strip in Musina that can be turned into an international airport. The world heritage site of Mapungubwe is found in Musina. These are just a few things that consolidate our potential for growth.”  Goghsta Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize receives the file containing Musina Municipality’s overview for development from Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlope in parliament, Cape Town, last Thursday.  Email: