News - Date: 22 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 787 The discovery of the body of Ms Tshifhiwa Dorah Ramagoma (43) floating in the Tshifumbi River has left the baffled family with many questions. Ramagoma, of Shayandima, went missing last Wednesday. The gruesome discovery happened on Tuesday around 11:00, when a young man spotted the body floating in the water. He notified other community members, who in turn called the police. Divers also arrived at the scene and the body was fished out of the water. News of the discovery of the semi-decomposed body was heard far and wide, and in a short space of time many curious members of the community had arrived from the township of Shayandima and neighbouring villages of Tshisahulu and Itsani. The police had to cordon off the scene as more and more of the residents wanted to invade the scene. Ramagoma’s grief-stricken family, who had been keeping a vigil at the scene, could not identify her right there and they were taken along to the Tshilidzini government mortuary where they positively identified her. Circumstances around her death are still very sketchy, but information provided indicates that she left her home on Wednesday, leaving her bag and cellphone behind. Family spokesperson Lufuno Pedron Ramagoma said she might have been experiencing problems as she had come back from her home at Itsani for her family at Shayandima. Her husband is said to be gravely ill at the local hospital. Rumour has it that she had previously attempted to take her own life. Ramagoma said they were still confused and shocked. "As a family we knew she had problems, but our problem is that she did not share them with us. We did not expect her to die in the terrible manner she did. She was a very reserved person and we just wish she had shared with us. Maybe we could have done something to help her," he said. Ramagoma further indicated that they were still in the dark as to what could have happened that led to her death, but they hoped police investigations would throw more light on the matter. He added that they would decide on the date of the burial after a post mortem had been performed and that the funeral would either be on Sunday or Monday. She leaves behind her two grown-up children. Veteran community leader Mr Takkie Madia, who grew up in the area, said they were worried that the once clean river full of fish was fast becoming a dumping place for bodies. "This must be the fifth body to be found in this river, and we are very concerned as residents. As of now, we have no idea as to what happened to her, but we believe police investigations will unravel the mystery of her disappearance and her death," he said. Meanwhile, the police have opened an inquest docket, following the discovery. Limpopo police spokesperson Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the incident. “The cause of her death is still unknown, but all will be revealed by the ongoing police investigation. Suspects are unknown and there is no arrest so far," said Ngoepe. The body of Ms Tshifhiwa Ramagoma, who was found floating in the Tshifumbi River, is taken away by the police and forensic specialists.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: