News - Date: 24 September 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 261 Young people should stand up and create their own jobs, instead of waiting for the government to give them golden opportunities. This is the positive message from Mpho Michel Phupheli (29) of Musina, whose entrepreneurial spirit is lifting young people’s desires of becoming their own bosses. Phupheli established Walaza De Mkupe Projects three years ago and deals in scrap metals, which he later sells to licenced dealers around the country. His hard work, perseverance and zeal to succeed caught the attention of Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlope, who paid him a visit at his workshop last week. Phupheli said he wanted to correct people’s perceptions that the scrap-metal business was designated to a certain group of people. “When we grew up, we used to see a large group of the white population in this kind of business. Now that South Africa is a free country and we have equal rights. I want to prove that everyone can succeed in every business venture that we choose. The most important thing is to work hard, set your targets and have achievable goals.” Phupheli, who works with his younger brother, Visect, who is a full-time employee of the company, says he employs four to five people per month on a temporary basis, depending on the load of the job. “These people can put some bread on the table because of this business and I’m happy that I’m contributing to their families’ livelihood. I plan to employ more than 20 people on a full-time basis in the next five years.” Muhlope said she was pleased that Phupheli was making a difference in the local community. “We will send a team to assess how best we can assist  him to grow his business.  He is a true example that anything is possible in our democratic country. I hope other young people will learn from him that South Africa is full of opportunities.” Young entrepreneur Mpho Michel Phupheli (left) explains to Mayor Mihloti Muhlope how his scrap-metal business operates. Also in the picture are Cllr Prince Sakala, Visect Phupheli and Domnic Nkwana (personal assistant to the Musina mayor).  Email: