News - Date: 16 September 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 201 “Having regular, free and fair elections is one of the cornerstones of democracy. This goes together with other important democratic principles, such as the right to vote, to choose which party you want to belong to and to accept the results of an election.” Those were the words of Mr Khathutshelo Radzilani, the outreach and training officer of the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) in the Vhembe District. Radzilani was addressing stakeholders and community members during the IEC outreach programme and the launch of heritage month that was held at Mphephu Youth Centre, Tshipise Tsha Sagole, on Saturday. The event was celebrated under the theme: “Embracing our diverse culture.” He said South Africa was divided into about 19 000 voting districts, each one with its own voting station. “To vote you have to be on the voters roll for your voting district. You need a green ID book with a bar code, a smart card or a temporary ID document. It is important that we use this right of voting, because there are people who lost their lives fighting for this right.” IEC Musina Electoral Project Coordinator Dakala Netshisaulu said the commission (IEC) was happy that they were getting the necessary support from traditional leaders, government departments, community structures and the public. “The IEC is here to serve everyone and this outreach programme is one example of our commitment to meet people. We are humbled by the huge turnout in our various outreach programmes, and we thank our stakeholders for their kind support.” Cllr Siyaphi Shirilele from Musina Municipality commended the IEC outreach programme and added that it promoted democracy. “South Africa is a democratic country where our rights are protected by the Constitution. This also includes the rights of choosing political representatives through the ballot paper. We have to guard jealously against any violation of the Constitution because we have fought hard for this democracy.” Speakers during the event also included representatives from the SAPS, Department of Health, Musina Disability Forum, local traditional authority and the Department of Social Development. Photographed during the IEC's outreach programme and launch of heritage month are: standing from left to right, Cllr Siyaphi Shirilele, Cllr Rabelani Gadabeni, Khathutshelo Radzilani (IEC), Const Ellah Tshihanyise (Masisi SAPS) and Mr Abram Rambuda (Department of Social Development). In front are Mesdames Vuledzani Matodzi (IEC), Shonisani Khorommbi (Musina Disability Forum), Dakalo Netshisaulu (IEC) and Debra Mutavhatsindi (Community member).  Email: