News - Date: 20 September 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 507 Tears of joy and excitement flowed when Funi's Catering Beauty Pageant recently crowned their king and queen during a ceremony at the De Gann-Inn Guest Lodge in Shayandima.

Takalani Ramarumo is the new queen, with Pfariso Pedrossa her first princess, Ndinae Balanganani is the second princess and Phathutshedzo Sikhwivhilu was crowned Miss Personality. Zwonaka Tshivhase is the king, Gundo Mureri the first prince, Jubilee Vongani Dumela the second and Tsunzhukani Basil Mahoya was crowned Mr Hunk.

As queen, Takalani walked away with a R40 000 wedding voucher, R1 500 cash, a R1 500 clothing voucher given by Ndaa!, make-up from Awesa, a R400 voucher from Heaven Salon and a trip to Durban. Pfariso Pedrossa received a make-up voucher, R1 000 cash, a massage voucher and a trip to Durban. The second princess, Ndinae Balanganani, received R500 cash, make-up and massage vouchers. If she wants to go with others to Durban, she'll pay half price.

As king, Zwonaka walked away with a R40 000 wedding voucher, R1 500 cash and a trip to Durban. The first prince, Gundo Mureri, received R1 000 cash and a trip to Durban while the second prince, Jubilee Vongani Dumela, received R500 cash and if he wants to join the winners on the trip to Durban, he'll pay half price. According to the organisers, food and accommodation are included in the trip.

The pageant started in 2015. The organizer, Mr Vusani Rathogwa, said the pageant promoted self-confidence, leadership and strong public-speaking skills. The ceremony was sponsored by Unas Bridal, Ndaa!, Heaven Salon, Mivhundu Tours, Roots Butchery and De Gann-Inn Guest Lodge. The winners are, from left to right, Tsunzhukani Basil Mahoya (Mr Hunk), Jubilee Vongani Dumela (second prince), Gundo Mureri (first prince), Zwonaka Tshivhase (king), Takalani Ramarumo (queen), Pfariso Pedrossa (first princess), Ndinae Balanganani (second princess) and Phathutshedzo Sikhwivhilu (Miss Personality). Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: