News - Date: 02 September 2018 Written by: Anton van Zyl / Viewed: 1536 Whether it’s via social media, radio or word of mouth, Tshovhilingana 10 has taken Limpopo by storm and the film is getting people of different ages laughing. Whether it’s the jokes or the multitalented and funny Mr Bundu played by Ntambudzeni Rasendedza, the film will leave you in stitches. The film is produced and owned by Bvumo Productions. The dialogue is mainly in Tshivenda with a bit of Xitsonga. It runs for 90 minutes and is PG rated (suitable for family viewing) by the Film and Publication Board. The film was shot entirely in Lwamondo and Mashawana villages in 2017. Vho-Bundu is in a dilemma after having taken a second wife in the absence of his first wife. Things get complicated when his mother, Vho-Masindi (played by Vho-Masindi Ravele) falls ill. Vho-Bundu crosses paths with a local sangoma, one conniving Munyaradzi (Muamba Tembo) who is of Zimbabwean descent. The film follows Vho-Bundu’s troubled family and social life. Many people are familiar with Mr Bundu since his introduction in Tshovhilingana Part 1, released on DVD in 2006. It was followed by Tshovhilingana 2,3, 4, 5,6,7,8,9 and now 10. Tsetsetse 1, 2 and Mr Bundu form part of Bvumo Productions’ rich 13-film catalogue. Bvumo Productions was founded in 2006. It is managed by its founding members, Mr Khathutshelo wa ha Mamphodo and Mr Ratshibvumo wa ha Mutsharini. Having first met up at Wits University during their student days, the two have gone on to forge a formidable business partnership, which has been resilient for a solid 12 years. Khathu is a self-taught filmmaker who pioneered the Venda low-budget phenomena now popularly known as “Vendawood”, long before it was fashionable, let alone financially viable. His first ever film was shot in 2005.  Khathutshelo is the brain behind the storylines, the casting, the shooting and the editing of “the people’s film”, Tshovhilingana 10 and all the earlier Tshovhilingana episodes. Inspired by the Nigerian films and their simplicity, Khathutshelo decided to make a comedy film of his own on a zero budget, literally. His efforts were rewarded when he got a Multichoice learnership in film making in 2008. “I wanted to tell our own stories as VhaVenda people, in our own language, and to depict our everyday life. I am glad that it seems we have managed to achieve this, judging by the response our films are receiving from our target audience,” says Khathutshelo. Ratshibvumo, who is a qualified chartered accountant by profession, is the executive producer at Bvumo Productions. He is responsible for finance, marketing, strategy and overall management of the film productions and the business. Ratshibvumo says his decision to get involved in film making was an easy one. “I heard some friends and relatives discussing this one very funny Tshivenda film called Tshovhilingana back in 2005. I had never seen the film. When my friend Khathutshelo told me a few months later he needed assistance with a film called Tshovhilingana, I couldn’t decline that opportunity,” says Ratshibvumo. The company has come a long way since its first release in 2006. When Tshovhilingana was broadcast on SABC 2 and on Mzansi Magic, this marked a key milestone for the company as its films reached a broader audience beyond its limited DVD market. The low-budget film market occupies a peculiar market in the South African film and TV industry. Often seen as informal and low quality by film funders, it does not generate the hype associated with mainstream popular films. However, films such as Tshovhilingana are important for Tshivenda-speaking audiences who are mainly marginalised on television and cinema platforms. Mr Shadrack Bokaba, acting chief executive officer at the National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF) of South Africa could not agree more. “The NFVF’s mandate is to ensure the equitable growth of South Africa’s film and television industry. The deliberate focus on underserviced provinces like Limpopo is part of our strategy to ensure that all South Africans have an equal chance to participate in the film industry. Limpopo’s film sector is particularly unique in its focus on producing content in the Tshivenda language. It’s no surprise that audiences serviced by the likes of Bvumo Productions find their films relatable.” Interestingly, nothing about Bvumo Productions suggests an informal business. They may refer to themselves as “The No 1 film spaza shop in the SADC region” in their Twitter profile page and website and throw themselves shade about not going to win any film awards. It is deliberately canny! The company is a registered and tax compliant business. Mutsharini and Mamphodo decided to go at it alone after being rejected for funding mainly because of their low budget production model. “People don't realise that low budget sometimes means zero budget. You make do with what you have and shoot as quickly as possible to keep your production costs as low as possible. It’s all about creativity.” reflects Mamphodo. It’s no surprise that the company recently took a difficult, risky but calculated decision to abandon its DVD distribution model that audiences are accustomed to. Piracy continues to be a serious problem that not only hits the bottom line, but sees customers buying inferior products without being aware. Since 2017, Bvumo Productions has been taking Tshovhilingana 10 to various venues in Thohoyandou, Makhado, Pretoria and Johannesburg where there is a paying audience who speak or understand Tshivenda. Now, with the assistance they have received from the National Film and Video Foundation, Bvumo Productions is embarking on a Tshovhilingana 10 Bioscope Final Tour, taking the Tshovhilingana 10 bioscope to various communities in Venda over a period of eight weeks. The screenings done so far are Thohoyandou (4 August), Nzhelele Biaba (11 August) and Tshilamba (18 August). More than 1,500 people have watched the film at these three venues combined. The film has been received with much laughter and tears, all in appreciation! “Seeing so many people of different ages laughing and watching our film in their own backyard is a producer’s dream,” says an elated Mamphodo. Mutsharini, on the other hand, cannot believe how ticket sales have been selling like hot cakes. “We are humbled by the support the communities are giving us. We also extend our appreciation to the NFVF for making these bioscopes possible. Through their help, we are now taking Tshovhilingana to the people,” says Mutsharini. The film will be screened at 12:00, 14:30 and 17:00 on the following dates (Saturdays): 25 August 2018: Muduluni Community Hall, Muduluni
1 September 2018: Assemblies of God, Gondeni Sterkstroom
8 September 2018: Elim Waterval Community Hall, Waterval
15 September 2018: Makhado Show Grounds Hall, Makhado
22 September 2018: Tshifulanani Primary School Hall, Lwamondo Tickets go for only R30 and are sold via various outlets such as Computicket, Usave, Shoprite, Checkers and House and Home stores that are found in many shopping centres in Gauteng and Limpopo. The final bioscope tour is made possible by the marketing and distribution support received from the NFVF. Bvumo production has completed a script for its next film, Tshovhilingana 11, which will also follow the same bioscope distribution model. The film will be released in late 2018 or early 2019, finances allowing.   Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 27 years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.  Email: anton@zoutnet.co.za