News - Date: 06 September 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 818 Iconic Xitsonga music maestro Dr Thomas Chauke is set to leave his fans eating out of his hands and asking for more. The veteran musician, known for his Shimatsatsa brand, will make his second appearance during the Phalaphala FM Royal Heritage Festival to take place at the Royal Gardens at Nandoni outside Thohoyandou. The festival will be held tomorrow (Saturday) and  will be preceded by a gospel music festival at the Charis Missionary Church at Lufule on Friday (today). Well-known artists such as Dr Tumi, Benjamin Dube, Rofhiwa Manyaga and Worship House are among those to perform there. On Saturday, music lovers will head to Nandoni for a festival to be headlined by, among others, AKA, jazz icon Jonas Gwangwa, Zimbabwean star Leonard Zhakata, Makhadzi, Benny Mayengani, DJ Zinhle, Zozo, Sengere, reggae icon Colbert Mukwevho and Mazwale. Speaking about his performance at the show, Chauke said that the show was very special to him. "We are very prepared for this event and I can tell you we are still rehearsing, and this will stop on Friday and we will rest before the big day. I will perform most of my music that has stood the test of time, and I will be dishing out many of my old songs, as well as some of the new favourites”. Chauke, better known as Shinyori to his fans, has 36 albums under his belt. He will be accompanied by his full band for the show. Show promoter Mr Shandukani Nesengani said there was very big improvement compared to the previous shows in terms of security and entry to the venue, among others. "Revellers should be rest assured it will be the best show ever and all our artists have promised their all for the event, " he said. He warned those buying tickets on the black market that they should not waste their time by coming to the venue as they would not be allowed inside. Reggae icon Colbert Mukwevho, the darling of reggae lovers, is set to mesmerize during a performance at Royal Gardens tomorrow. Thomas Chauke, who will dish out his old and new songs from his forthcoming album. Benjamin Dube is one of the best to perform during the gospel show at Charis. Jazz veteran Jonas Gwangwa will make his debut at the Royal Gardens tomorrow.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: