News - Date: 02 April 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 10008 “It pains my heart to think that a group of individuals who could be called my own children lied to me – promising to build a house for me, which they never did!” A 67-year-old blind lady and resident of Mamuhohi village in the Nzhelele area, Vho Florah Munyai, reflected on the visit by representatives of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) who came to her home some three years ago after learning about her painful living conditions. Munyai had no stable shelter, and the EFF felt that the mud houses she occupied could collapse at any given time. Munyai had told the EFF that she had been applying for an RDP house ever since she could remember, but without any success. In the story, which Limpopo Mirror carried on 12 June 2015, the EFF’s regional secretary, Mr Patrick Mashau, and his team lambasted the government and said the old lady was not enjoying “the fruits of freedom and democracy”. The political party then promised to take the responsibility of building a proper house for Munyai. “Our branch leadership is busy with preparations obtaining quotations of all materials needed for the project,” he had said. “We are not yet the government, but we will not fold our arms and pretend that we are not affected by the government’s negligence regarding service delivery.” However, three years later, the EFF's local team has been avoiding Munyai. Even when she had sent for them, they would not give a messenger any concrete answer with regard to the house project. “I am blind, but when they visited me three years ago, they found me smashing rocks to make bricks to try to build a house myself,” she said. “But they stopped me, saying it was not a good thing for an old lady to do the kind of work I was doing. I regret that I listened to them and stopped my rock-smashing project. I don’t know what kind of an agenda they were trying to push through using me and having me appear in newspapers.” She added that it would be hard for her to “forgive the EFF for lying to me”. A media inquiry was emailed to the EFF's provincial chairperson, Mr Jossey Buthare, two weeks ago. Meanwhile, Buthare has since blocked this journalist’s calls and WhatsApp messages, following a media enquiry on a similar story, where the EFF had allegedly failed to honour their promise to provide a free water station to residents of Mammburu village in Tshituni in the Nzhelele area. A 67-year-old blind lady, Vho Florah Munyai, says it will be hard for her to forgive the EFF for lying to her. One of the houses that Vho Sarah Munyai uses. The EFF members who formed part of the team that promised the old lady, Vho Sarah Munyai, a house some three years ago.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com