News - Date: 16 April 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1847 The distraught mother of the woman who was killed in a most brutal way, has made an impassioned plea to the community outside to help arrest the killers. Ms Joyce Mudau (59) of Tshitereke outside Thohoyandou, whose daughter Aifheli Mudau and her boyfriend, Mr Elekanyani Mahwasane, were kidnapped and killed last month, said that she has accepted the fact that they will not come back. She has, however, many unanswered questions relating to their deaths. Ms Aifheli Mudau (30) better known as Dakalo, of Tshitereke Dzungani and Mahwasane (30) of Khubvi were allegedly hijacked at Makonde last month and their charred remains were found in their burnt car the following morning. Another body, believed to be that of one of the robbers, was found some metres from the burnt car. It is suspected that he sustained injuries when the car capsized and he could not run away from the scene. Speaking for the first time after the incident, Mudau told Limpopo Mirror that the death of her daughter has traumatized the whole family. She said when she heard about the incident she rushed to the scene. When she arrived at the scene where her daughter was murdered, she could not believe what she saw, as there was nothing left of her beloved daughter. “She was burnt beyond recognition and the sight had given me sleepless nights and nightmares. Police took what was left for forensic tests and I am relieved that they promised to do what they could to speed up the tests for our sake. We are finally going to bury her, but we still have many questions around the whole incident. We would like to know the identity of the killer or killers and why they did it,” she said. “I believe that the suspects are known by residents and I am appealing to those with information to come forward and share it with police so that they could be arrested before they commit more crimes,” she said. She added that, so far, they are happy with the way the police are handling the case and are extremely thankful that the DNA testing did not take time. “We are in constant interaction with the investigating officer, and we are appealing to them to speed up the investigations. We need closure in this matter and the burial was part of that process, but we have to get answers as to why and who did it,” said Mudau. She described Dakalo as a good girl who never gave her problems and wondered why someone would have killed her in the manner it had happened. “I know that everyone of us will one day pass on, but I never thought my daughter would die in such a brutal way,” she added. Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said a provincial joint task team are still investigating the issue and are at present on a huge manhunt for the suspects involved in this brutal murder. “Police investigations are still continuing and anyone with information which can lead to the arrest of the suspects are asked to phone D/W/O George Mutavhatsindi at 082 702 9890 or 082 469 2650 or Capt Richard Boshomane on 079 894 5501 or the crime stop number 0860 010 111 or Crime line SMS 32211 or the nearest police station," said Ngoepe. The murdered woman, Ms Aifheli Dakalo Mudau. The distraught mother, Ms Joyce Mudau, who still needs answers.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: