News - Date: 28 April 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 169 A well-known community builder, gogo Kutama Mugagadeli Tambani (107), died after a long illness at the Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital last Wednesday. Tambani was the mother of the ANC activitist, Sam Tambani, who was shot dead in Johannesburg in the 1990s. Gogo Tambani herself was an active member of the ANC and the founder of the Phalaphala FM fan club. The family spokesperson, Cllr Elisa Tambani, said the family members were saddened by the passing away of the gogo, as she was regarded as a light to the family and the nation at large. “We are truly devastated, as we have lost a pillar of the family. Everyone looked up to her for advice,” she said. Tambani said that the area had lost a role model who was dearly loved and respected. “She was very disciplined and we are very proud of all her achievements,” Tambani said. The former minister, Sydney Mufamadi, who was hiding at her house at Meadowlands in Gauteng during the time of apartheid, expressed his condolences to the family of Tambani. He said that community members around Vhembe and South Africa as whole were deeply touched by the passing away of Tambani. Mufamadi said that Tambani’s death had taken a real icon, confidante and inspirational leader from both young and old people in the community. “This is a great loss not only for the family, but the whole community. To lose such an icon at this time is painful. We are just praying that God gives them (the family) the comfort they need in this time of grief,” he said. She will be buried on Saturday at Tshiozwi. The service will start at 06:00. Kutama Tambani (107) is no more.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za