News - Date: 13 April 2018 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 837 The South African National Civic Organization (Sanco), at Makonde village is calling for a satellite police station to be erected in their area to help curb the crime rate. The secretary of Sanco in the area, Mr Humbulani Sikhanukha, said that they believe the solution to combatting high incidents of criminal activities at Makonde and the neighbouring village of Khubvi, is the establishment of a satellite police station “which must be followed by a fully-fledged station later.” Sikhanukha said this following the latest incident of the abduction and wounding of a traffic officer, Mr Langutani Shirindi. The provincial police have confirmed that Shirindi (35) was abducted on the road between Makonde and Ha-Luvhimbi last Sunday morning at around 08:00. He was later found at Phiphidi with two gun-shot wounds. According to police, Shirindi was manning the traffic flow along the main road of Makonde when he spotted a silver Toyota Corolla that failed to stop at the intersection while driving very fast. Shirindi, who was driving an official Toyota bakkie, then followed the offenders and managed to stop them on the road to Ha-Luvhimbi. Police say three suspects who were in the stolen car, hijacked the officer at gunpoint and shoved him in the boot and drove around with him. The suspects then dumped the patrol vehicle at Ha-Luvhimbi and took the official with them. A search then took place, and Shirindi was later found at Phiphidi with two gunshot wounds, a spokesperson for the police, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, said. He added that police managed to recover the getaway car, abandoned with an idling engine in the Thathe Vondo plantation near Phiphidi village. A firearm, cell phones, official Limpopo traffic uniform and other items were found at the scene, excluding the traffic officer’s firearm which was still missing at the time of going press. Shirindi was airlifted from the scene and is at present in a stable condition in a private hospital. His elder brother, Rhulani, said the family members are still recovering from shock following the incident. He added that the family members are delighted that their brother “is recovering well following this gruesome incident.” He appealed to people with information regarding the incident to assist the police in locating the culprits. “We strongly believe in the service of the police and we are confident that with the help of the community, they will nail these suspects,” he said. His sentiments were also echoed by MEC Makhurupetje who assured the family that police will not rest until the suspects are arrested. Thovhele Kennedy Midiyavhathu Tshivhase, the senior traditional leader of Makonde, added his concern about incidents of crime at Makonde, Khubvi and other areas under his jurisdiction. “We strongly believe that residents of Makonde and Khubvi know something about these crimes. “The Tshivhase Royal family is urging the community to work with the police to make sure that these perpetrators are arrested,” says Tshivhase. He added that his family will arrange a meeting between his council and the local council at Makonde and Khubvi in order to address the issue. Meanwhile, Sikhanukha said that liquor holes in the area should be regulated so that they cannot operate 24 hours. “We also believe that the selling of liquor is also contributing to these crimes.  Selling of dagga behind Makonde Stadium might also be contributing to these crimes,” says Sikhanukha. Makonde has been in the spotlight following several crime incidents that happened in the area. During the past year, a taxi driver was shot and killed at Shadani. A man was also killed while he was with a female friend at Mutale River, near Makonde. Two people were also kidnapped at Makonde and later found burnt near Saselemane, outside Malamulele. This is where the official car of the traffic officer was abandoned at Ha-Luvhimbi.  Email: