News - Date: 28 April 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 1183 After switching off the microphone for the past ten years, veteran radio presenter Razzmatazz Mashige is back on air. This time the radio guru, with more than 40 years of experience behind the microphone, has found a new home with Univen FM. Mashige’s debut show will be next Saturday (05 May). Mashige will be presenting Dza Matongoni (African Renaissance), a tshingondo (rhumba) music show that is aired every Saturday and Sunday between 18:00 and 21:00. Mashige made a name for himself during the days of the then Radio Thohoyandou and Radio Venda. Commonly known as Tshiendahongolo (a male baboon that walks alone), Mbatata, and Mukukululme wa Venda by his fans, Mashige said his comeback signalled a new direction in the local radio fraternity.  He jubilantly added: “Radio without me is like tea without sugar. This time, I am like an overflowing dam which sweeps down on everyone who stands in its way. You cannot keep a good man down. If I die now, I will die a happy man, because I have gone back to where I rightfully belong – the studio.” Mashige says he wants to continue with his legacy because he was the first person to introduce traditional music programmes while still with Radio Thohoyandou and Radio Venda. “The fact that I have on many occasions travelled to Zimbabwe and interacted with tshingondo artists has widened my horizon in my new show. This is because tshingondo music originated from Zimbabwe.  I don’t talk about things that I have read, but instead I narrate what I have seen and experienced.” Patrick Ndou is one of Mashige’s fans who used to listen to his programmes on Radio Thohoyandou. He said: “For many years, I was worried that we could not locate his beautiful voice. I’m happy that the veteran is back on radio. Ngangoho, radio i do difha tshothe zwino (indeed, radio will be more enjoyable now).” Back by popular demand ... Veteran radio presenter Razzmatazz Mashige has found a new home with Univen FM.  Email: