News - Date: 20 April 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 75 Messages of condolences continue to pour in after the passing away of well-known businessman and staunch member of the Zion Christian Church (ZCC), Mr Andries Khaukanani Tshiwanammbi (72) of Sheshe village, near Siloam. He is the father of Musina Municipal Manager, Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi and he died peacefully in his sleep last week Friday after a short illness. Mr Tshiwanammbi was one of the first people to enter the transport business in Venda in the early 60s. He owned several taxis that ferried people to Thohoyandou, Louis Trichardt and Johannesburg. He served as chairperson of the Sibasa-Siloam Taxi Association for 15 years. He also owned shops in various villages at the time when it was difficult for black people to conduct prosperous business initiatives. A farmer in his own right, he also owned a huge herd of cattle, orchards and a large number of chicken. His home is commonly known as “Musanda,” because it was always full of people who came to him for assistance. He would give them food, clothes, blankets and pay school fees for the children whose parents could not afford it. He also managed to assist some of the indigent community members and send the children to higher institutions of learning. Today they are qualified, working and providing for their families. Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi described his father as a loving person who had a heart of gold. “We have lost a father, community builder and a businessman, who shared his wealth with the poorest of the poor. He couldn’t even hurt a fly, because his inborn love was spread out to everyone.” Despite the pain of losing a loving parent, Tshiwanammbi says the family is comforted by the support from the church, colleagues and community members. “Given the large number of people flocking to our home since my father had passed on, we can attest without fear that he was an angel whose life touched everyone. Our hearts are grieving, but we have the courage to move on with life because of the massive support we are receiving during this difficult time.” The late Mr Tshiwanammbi is survived by his wife Florence, 11 children, several grandchildren and great grandchildren.  He will be buried at Sheshe village on Sunday (22 April). The service will start from his home, near Sheshe Primary School, at 06:30. Well-known businessman, Mr Andries Khaukanani Tshiwanammbi of Sheshe village, is no more.  Email: