News - Date: 02 April 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 893 Makhado Municipality’s newly appointed municipal manager, Freddy Tshivhengwa, appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on Monday, where he is facing charges of fraud. The charges against Tshivhengwa relate to transactions while he was still employed as the Vhembe District Municipality’s technical services manager. Tshivhengwa is alleged to have assisted in the awarding of seven tenders to his friend and the co-accused in the case, Denis Khoza. Khoza’s business, Denrob Business Enterprise, allegedly received tenders worth R42 Million between 2007 and 2009 in an irregular manner. It is further alleged that Khosa paid R30 000 in cash to Tshivhengwa to get the tenders. The Hawks also investigated allegations that Khoza had bought two trucks that were given to Tshivhengwa and that his house was renovated in order to get more tenders. The two accused were summoned by the Hawks to appear in the Thohoyandou Court on Monday morning. The case was postponed to 29 June and the two were released on a warning. The state prosecutor postponed the case while awaiting instructions on whether the matter should be referred to the High Court or whether it should be heard in the Magistrate’s Court. Tshivhengwa was appointed in November last year after the municipality had parted ways with Sakkie Mutshinyali. The Makhado Municipality’s spokesperson, Mr Louis Bobodi, said that as the municipality they upheld the doctrine that a person was innocent until proven guilty by a court of law. “We therefore cannot comment,” he said. Mr Freddy Tshivhengwa.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za