News - Date: 08 April 2018 Written by: Tracy Ngobeni / Viewed: 316 Hundreds of people paid their last respects to a well-known businessman, Solomon Muthuhathembiwi Masala (104), who was laid to rest at Tshikhwani cemetery on Saturday. Masala recently died after a short illness. Mourners from all over the country attended the funeral. All speakers described Muthuhathembiwi as a pioneer, a born leader and a man of vision. Among the positions he held, was that of a top executive of the Lemba Cultural Association. Family representative Mr Rueben Masala said the family had suffered a great loss. “It is painful to lose an intelligent father, but we thank God because He does everything for a reason.” He said that Muthuhathembiwi had been a “soldier” for the bigger part of his adult life. “He was one of those men who fought for development in the prime of his life and excelled at everything he did. He will be remembered for his dedication and commitment to the business and development of our people,” he said. Masala said the contributions of Muthuhathembiwi would remain to be seen, as he was a patriot who justified the cause of the struggle for the emancipation of mankind from all forms of slavery. “The community is in deep mourning as we have lost one of the giants of the struggle who still had a lot to offer for the development of the community,” said Masala. Maanda Masala (26), a grandchild of Muthuhathembiwi, said that he felt honoured to be named after a man of such stature. He added that his grandfather had taught him to love every single soul, regardless of their race, and that ubuntu was not just a theory, but rather a way of life. “My grandfather would wake up at four in the morning every day, because he believed that sleep is for the poor,” said Masala. Maanda Solomon Muthuhathembiwi Masala leaves behind 11 children, 20 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. The burial certificate awarded to Muthuhathembiwi witnessed by Judge Raulinga and Pastor Mamburu.  Photo: supplied. More than 100 people attended the funeral of Maanda "Muthuhathembiwi" Solomon Masala in Tshikwani. The grandchildren of Maanda "Muthuhathembiwi" Masala. From left to right are Maanda Octavius Masala, Itani Faith Masala and Maano Winston Masala on the grave of their late grandfather and grandmother. Photo: supplied. Maanda "Muthuhathembiwi" Solomon Masala was buried next to his wife Thinakaho Elina Masala. Photo: supplied. Maanda Solomon "Muthuhathembiwi" Masala. Photo: supplied.  Email: chabalalan98@gmail.com