News - Date: 29 April 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 946 “A life well lived indeed”. This short sentence can easily sum up the sentiments expressed by various speakers during the funeral service of Mr Andries Khaukanani Tshiwanammbi (72) at Sheshe village on Sunday. Commonly known as “AKT” or “Liboi” in the local fraternity, Tshiwanammbi was a respected businessman and a renowned pastor of the Zion Christian Church (ZCC). Although the family has a large yard, it was almost impossible to accommodate the thousands of mourners who came from all corners of the country. The little mountainous village came to a standstill as almost every villager wanted to be part of the ceremony as Liboi was accompanied to his final resting place not far from his home. Representing the children of the deceased during the funeral, Flora Mulaudzi said the family understood that their father was gone, but they were in deep mourning when they remembered all the good things that he had done for them while he was still alive. “Our father was in pain when he was sick. He is now pain-free and comfortable in the hands of the Lord, whom he served whole-heartedly during his lifetime. He continued to go to church although he was not feeling well. He didn’t complain to the Lord, but he accepted every situation he came across and thanked Jesus for everything. His soul is in perfect peace in his reserved heavenly room.” Flora said her father had taught the family and the local community that it was good to love one another. “I am not surprised by the huge turn-up at my father’s funeral because he treated every community member as a member of his family. He has been a pillar of strength for this community and we will miss him dearly.” One of Liboi’s friends and also a neighbour, Mr Dee Nemabaka, said the deceased had shared everything he had with his neighbours. “He loved everyone and shared his wealth with us. He loved cleanliness and encouraged everyone to be clean. If you went to buy something in his shop without a bath, he would give you a free bar of soup to go and take a bath and tell you to come back and buy what you need after you have bathed yourself. His fleet of cars and taxis belonged to everyone in the village as we would board them without paying a cent. Indeed, we have lost a pillar of strength here. We are consoled by the fact that his children are following in his footsteps.” Apart from family members, representatives from the ZCC, local traditional leadership, businesspeople, taxi associations, farmers and community structures paid tribute to Liboi during the funeral. Tshiwanammbi was born on 08 May 1946 at Dzamba. After completing standard 6, he qualified as a mechanic at the then Venda Vocational College in 1970. He worked as a mechanic in Johannesburg for seven years and decided to come home to start taxi businesses, shops and farming. Besides being the chairperson of the Siloam Sibasa Taxi Association for more than 20 years, he also became a member of the then Venda government legislature.  He was also the main sponsor of the local soccer team, Sheshe Bush Bucks. Children of the deceased, led by Musina Municipal Manager Nathi Tshiwanammbi (right), carry the casket of their father to the hearse before he was laid to rest at Sheshe village on Sunday. Family members pictured at the gravesite of Mr Andries Khaukanani Tshiwanammbi shortly after the funeral ceremony on Sunday. Members of the ZCC pay their last respects on their way to the local graveyard during the funeral of Mr Andries Khaukanani Tshiwanammbi on Sunday.  Email: