News - Date: 07 April 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1728 Limpopo Province, the business fraternity and churches have been plunged into mourning following the death of one of the country's top businessmen and clerics, Bishop Mafhungo Silas Rashaka of Thohoyandou Unit D. Rashaka (66) passed away on Sunday after being admitted to the Mediclinic in Polokwane a fortnight ago. His admission to the clinic followed an attack by robbers in which he was seriously injured. The philanthropic businessman and bishop owned Hollywood Motors and Filling Station and founded the Christ For All Nations Cathedral at Phiphidi. His death has been described as a big loss, not only for his family but the community at large. Commenting after learning of his passing on, Mr Eddie Singo, Thulamela Business Forum’s deputy chairperson and media officer, described Rashaka as a torch bearer in the business arena in the area. "He was one of the veterans in the field and it becomes very painful when we lose icons like him. Not long ago we lost another stalwart, Dr Phaswana, and now it is him. We are very sad as a forum, but we will encourage and support the family to soldier on, so that they pick up the baton and continue running the race," he said. Ms Azwifaneli Tshivhase, senior pastor at the church, who served under Rashaka, said the passing away of Rashaka had plunged the church into deep mourning. "It all started with prayers years ago at Thathe Vondo mountain, and all interested were welcome. We used the bishop's transport to the mountains. As the movement progressed, the people suggested that a church be built where God's people could worship.” Tshivhase added that the bishop had financed the building of the church “and every Sunday he would make sure the congregants were transported free of charge and free meals were served after the service. He was a very generous person who adopted the whole church and helped all in need," she said. The late bishop's last-born daughter, Ms Zwivhuya Rashaka, said their father was everything to the family. Rashaka is survived by his wife, Mrs Tshilidzi Rashaka, as well as five children, Khathu, Elelwani, Rabelani, Mulanga and Zwivhuya. He is also survived by his grandchildren, Mukovhe, Asakhakhi, Hulisani, Bonolikhethwa and Ahunamunwe. He will be laid to rest at the Mbaleni cemetery on Sunday. Bishop Mafhungo Silas Rashaka, busy preaching. Bishop Mafhungo Silas Rashaka Always happy.  The late Bishop Mafhungo Silas Rashaka dances during one of the functions.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: