News - Date: 08 April 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 93 Although the murdered Mr Takalani Oscar Nengwenani’s funeral was held in the middle of the week, one could have mistaken it for a weekend funeral as mourners came in their numbers. Nengwenani (31), son of well-known pastor, businessman, and retired police officer Israel Nengwenani, was buried last Wednesday during an emotional funeral held at the Thohoyandou Assemblies of God Church hall. He was brutally murdered three weeks ago while trying to defend a defenceless woman who was being attacked at a nearby tavern. He was stabbed several times and robbed of his belongings, before his body was dumped on the busy Punda Maria road. His murder was condemned by many in the community. Last Wednesday, pastors, church members, relatives and community members came in their numbers to bid farewell to the 31-year-old man who had helped in the family business. It was an emotional moment for the family, some of whom wept openly during the service. The deceased's siblings eulogized him as a humorous and loving person, who would make them laugh even when things were bad. His brother, Rendani, described him as someone who respected all, who was a good listener and was always ready to learn. “As siblings it was natural that we would sometimes have differences and disagreements. If he had wronged a person, he would apologize even before you could reprimand him. His laughter would drive away the anger of the wronged person and you would feel happy again. He loved us all and would just kiss everybody when he was happy; and we are already missing him. A void has been left in the family,” he said. The funeral service was conducted by the leader of the church, Dr Booi Mbedzi, who called on God to take control as things were getting out of hand in the country. He said sinners were in control and the worst part of it was that they boasted about it. Nengwenani was laid to rest at the Mbaleni Cemetery. The casket of Mr Takalani Oscar Nengwenani in church during the service. Emotional siblings wail during the funeral service.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: