News - Date: 14 April 2018 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 148 The founder-bishop of the Christ for all Nations Cathedral at Phiphidi-Ndondola and owner of Hollywood Motors and Filling Station, Bishop Mafhungo Silas Rashaka of Thohoyandou Unit D, was hailed as a man who gave what he had to the needy and someone who encouraged education. During his funeral last Saturday, Vhamusanda Vho-Dzivhuluwani Tshivhase of Phiphidi-Ndondola said Bishop Rashaka had done many things for his community. During his lifetime he built the new church, he helped the poor people and he paid tuition fees to learners at tertiary level. “We want the children of Rashaka and pastors who served under him to continue helping the church to grow, as we don’t want the church to cease to operate because the founder is no more. He left us while we were still expecting many more things from him, as he was devoted to give,” said Tshivhase. Reading the obituary, Vhamusanda Vho-Alunangwi Tshivhase said the late Rashaka entered the business world in 1985. He was one of the youngest businessman in the area. “On his way he started to love God dearly and followed his ways. He was the founder of Christ for All Nations Cathedral and became the bishop of the church until his last day on the earth,” said Tshivhase. Rashaka (66) passed away two weeks ago, after being admitted to the Mediclinic in Polokwane. His admission to the clinic followed an attack by robbers in which he was seriously injured. He was laid to rest during an emotional funeral held at Mbaleni cemetery on Saturday. The function formally started at his church in Phiphidi-Ndondola. The late bishop is survived by his wife, Tshilidzi, and children, Khathu, Elelwani, Rabelani, Mulanga and Zwivhuya. Meanwhile, the Limpopo police is appealing to the community at large to help them with information that can lead to the arrest of the people who attacked the late bishop. People with information can phone D/W/O George Mutavhatsindi at 082 702 9890 or 082 4692 650. The late Bishop Silas Mafhungo Rashaka. Some of the family members of the late Bishop Rashaka carry the coffin, while petrol attendants from Hollywood Motors and Filling Station are looking on.  Email: