News - Date: 30 April 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 222 A passionate and enthusiastic model, Vusani Rathogwa, has started his own modelling agency, I Model Set. He said the agency was started in 2017 as a project in which he was trying to introduce and create more modelling opportunities in Venda. “I was going around the whole of Venda offering free training to young and upcoming models who have dreams and a passion to enter the modelling industry,” he explained. “I am trying to solve the problem that many young upcoming models are facing in Venda. Venda doesn’t have many opportunities in the modelling industry and few have the knowledge of what modelling can offer to a person. Most of the models just know about beauty pageants, but they don’t have a full image of other opportunities in the modelling industry,” he said. Vusani said his agency aimed to expose and connect models to the right market. “We have already created contacts with the South African Modelling Youth Forum under the leadership of Percy Mohale, and I am excited to say that some of our models have already started to enjoy the benefits of these contacts. We aim to build a strong modelling industry in Venda and create a strong market between models, fashion designers and buyers,” he added. When Vusani was growing up, he was passionate about modelling. “To me, modelling never started as a career but it was just a hobby that grew to be a passion. I believe there is a reason God created me as tall, black and handsome as I am to really show the beauty of His creation. Modelling to me is part of the purpose that I believe God wants to fulfil through me. I can’t sit down and watch the talent He has given me fading away without utilizing it,” he said. Vusani had participated in a number of modelling shows, which include DSTV’s Delicious Food and Music Festival, the Indigenous Games Fashion show, the Johannesburg Diana Fashion show and the Thohoyandou Fashion Week. Those interested in joining the agency can contact him on Instagram at i_model_set and Facebook I_Model_set. A passionate model, Vusani Rathogwa. Photo supplied. A passionate model, Vusani Rathogwa. Photo supplied.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: