News - Date: 16 April 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 219 The acting District Manager Operations of the Department of Home Affairs in Thohoyandou, Mrs Takalani Ndadza, compared Mr Ndivhudzannyi Samson Negoma (65) to a walking encyclopaedia and a pioneer of history, who built an everlasting knowledge monument throughout his 41 years of unbroken public service. Ndadza was addressing staff and guests who attended Negoma’s retirement farewell event held at the Makwarela government offices last week. During the time of his retirement, Negoma held the position of Manager Support Services heading Human Resources, Finance, Revenue, Registry, Assets and Procurement at the Department of Home Affairs. “Mr Negoma can be described as a good shepherd and loyalist who always made sure that he protects the image of government and puts a smile to the public he serves. He can easily be compared to a soccer player who performed well in every position in which he is fielded. We wish we could harvest his knowledge, because he was the master of every aspect here at the Home Affairs offices. Through his dedication, he inspired us to work hard and this office is among the best in the country, because of people like him,” said Ndadza. In response, Negoma thanked the authorities for giving him the opportunity to realize his potential. Guests laughed when he told them that he earned R72 a month when he started working in 1977. “Work is not about money, it is about putting a smile on the person you are assisting. I’m happy that I am going home with clean hands. Throughout my 41 years’ service, I have never been warned, charged or brought before a disciplinary committee. If you want to enjoy your work, love what you do and do everything on time. Although I am going to rest, I will always be available for advice whenever I’m needed.” Commonly known as Uncle Sam at work, Nogoma started his public service work in 1977 as a clerk for the Department of Justice. In 1979 he became the paymaster at Mutale where he was responsible for salaries of casual labourers in all departments and old age social grants. In 1981 he was transferred to Vuwani where he worked as a clerk of the court and interpreter. Through hard work and dedication, he occupied various management positions in government departments until he retired last week. Mr Ndivhudzannyi Samson Negoma (65) receives a token of appreciation from the acting District Manager Operations of the Department of Home Affairs in Thohoyandou, Mrs Takalani Ndadza. Negoma prides himself with 41 years unbroken service in government.  Email: