News - Date: 26 April 2018 Written by: Tracy Ngobeni / Viewed: 174 A former drug addict and ex-convict, Mr Mpho Makua (36), is at present a brand ambassador of an anti-drug campaign of Munna Ndi Nnyi. His work entails informing people about drugs and the danger of living “in a trapped body”. This rehabilitated ex-convict was arrested at Northgate in Johannesburg in 2001 for robbery and was released on parole in 2004. On release, he communicated with Munna Ndi Nnyi and requested to work with them. “Munna Ndi Nnyi welcomed me in January this year, to assist with drug-abuse awareness and massage therapy,” Makua said. “I moved from Johannesburg with my wife, so that we can work full time at the organisation. Our time at the Munna Ndi Nnyi is really rewarding and we are enjoying every moment.” He urged young and older people who are addicted to seek help while there is still time. “The more you use drugs, the more you become a danger to yourself and the community and the more you become broke,” he warned. “It's unfortunate that people who sell drugs don’t consume them.” He stated that he tried getting help from the rehabilitation centre in Gauteng to quit drugs, but it didn’t work until he was introduced to machine massage treatment, which helped him release stress and pains. “Today I am assisting in the massage section of Munna Ndi Nnyi, where I am a masseur,” he said. “I enjoy my work. I get more self-healing the more I assist clients who come here every day. I remember when I first started attending a massage treatment here, people who saw me enter the centre would laugh at me. At the end I received the help which I needed in my life.” Makua would like to see young children focus on education rather than drugs, as it “will scatter their dreams.” Munna Ndi Nnyi's director Dr Bardwell Mufunwaini said that it is important to teach young ones, especially those who are not yet the victims of drugs, to know the danger of using drugs and how it can ruin their future. Photographed during the welcoming of Mr Mpho Makuna are from left to right Adv Mbulaheni Nemugumoni, Makua, Dr Batdwell Mufunwaini and Cap Thilivhali Mulaudzi.  Email: chabalalan98@gmail.com