News - Date: 13 April 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1033 The gruesome discovery of a bloodied body with stab wounds at a gate at Ha-Mutsha outside Thohoyandou has left the community in shock. The body of Mr Dakalo Murabi (28) was found at a relative’s gate in a pool of blood. The body was discovered at around 06:30 on Friday morning and has left the community with many unanswered questions. It is alleged that the man worked at the nearby farms and could have been on his way to work when he decided to pass by a relative's home, where he met his fate. The place where the body was found is not far from a hardware store, which was robbed by criminals the previous day. It leads the community to believe that there are ruthless criminals roaming the streets of the village. News of the body at the gate spread like wildfire and within a short space of time the place was swarming with curious onlookers from all over the village and neighbouring villages. Among those who arrived was local Makhado ward councillor Saddam Jeffrey Masutha who sounded very concerned about crime in his ward. “Just a fortnight ago a body of a man was found in a house and we have strong suspicions that he was attacked and killed. Yesterday a robbery took place nearby and today this body is here. We have a problem here in this area and this will need all of us to stand up and say enough is enough.” Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed the murder, saying the victim was murdered shortly before his body was found. “Mr Murabi was a resident of Mutsha village and he was found lying dead next to the gate of his uncle’s house with multiple serious wounds on his head. It looks like several objects, blunt and sharp were used in the commission of this murder. The suspects are at this stage still unknown and at large,” said Ngoepe. The body of Mr Dakalo Murabi being taken away from the gate where it was found. Family members stand helplessly at the gate where the body was found.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: