News - Date: 14 April 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 544 The demarcation issue in Vuwani was again discussed when the Venda king, Khosikhulu Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana met with the new minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Zweli Mkhize on Sunday at the Mphephu Royal Kraal. Some of the dignitaries who attended the meeting include Venda senior traditional leaders, the MEC of Coghsta Jerry Ndou, Vhembe Executive Mayor Cllr Florence Radzilani, Makhado Mayor Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi, Musina Mayor Cllr Mihloti Muhlophe and Thulamela Municipality Mayor Cllr Mushoni Tshifhango. During his visit, Mkhize promised that the government will resolve the outstanding Vuwani demarcation issues. The area was characterised by violent protests that left more than 30 schools, government properties and private properties burnt since 2016 when residents protested against their inclusion into the new Collins Chabani Municipality. Mkhize said that the Vuwani area remains one of his department’s top priorities. “It was appropriate of us to pay the visit to the King, basically to announce ourselves as new Minister but also to seek support on issues around this area. It was a discussion to work on a process to deal with these issues,” said Mkhize. He said that he will also visit other traditional leaders across the country. Khosikhulu Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana said that he agreed with the Minister on several issues. “We are still going to have a formal meeting with his department, where different stakeholders will be invited to put matters to bed,” said Mphephu-Ramabulana. King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana (left) listens to Minister Zweli Mkhize while he addresses the guests. From left are Vhembe Executive Mayor Cllr Florence Radzilani, Minister Zweli Mkhize, Thulamela Mayor Cllr Mushoni Tshifhango, Makhado Mayor Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi, MEC of Coghsta Jerrey Ndou and Musina Mayor Cllr Mihloti Muhlophe.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za