News - Date: 23 April 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 704 A 37-year-old man, suspected of robbing a tavern and pointing an unlicensed firearm, was severely assaulted by community members at Mpheni on Sunday night. He was only rescued when the police intervened. In the past few months several incidents were reported where community members resorted to violence and seriously injured or killed people accused of theft. The suspect at Mpheni was arrested and taken to Elim Hospital where he was treated while under police guard. He was later discharged. He appeared in the Waterval magistrate’s court on Monday and the case was postponed. He remains in custody. A member of the community who preferred to remain anonymous, said that it was good that the man was beaten. “These criminals think they can do as they wish in the community. We are tired of crime and the rule of law is taking us nowhere. Beating or killing them will send a strong message out there that whoever wants to indulge in crime should think twice before doing that,” he said. Another community member said that crime was rampant in the area but acknowledged that it would be better if residents co-operated with the police. “Ugly situations like these could be averted if criminals are locked away for a long time,” he said. “We want to send a message to other would-be thieves that Mpheni and surrounding areas are not playing grounds for thieves. They must go and look for jobs if they want to get money, not steal from our poor, hardworking community members who are trying to provide for their families,” said one of the people who had witnessed the assault of the suspect. Waterval police spokesperson W/O Foster Rambau said that they had arrested a 37-year-old man, Mr Patrick Ndou of Mavhungeni on a charge of pointing a firearm and being in possession of an unlicensed firearm. “We managed to recover a pistol,” added Rambau. He condemned the action by the community members. “Residents should not take the law into their own hands, but when confronted with such situations, they should give the police space to work. Their role is to help the police with information, because if they take the law into their own hands, they are equally guilty of an offence,” he said. The 37-year-old Patrick Ndou of Mavhungeni appeared in court on a charge of pointing a firearm and being in possession of an unlicensed firearm. He was badly assaulted by community members.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za