News - Date: 21 April 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1223 A 12-year-old girl was killed and several people injured when the driver of a bakkie ferrying church members from a conference in Louis Trichardt back home lost control of the vehicle at Dzwerani on Saturday. Masindi Mugovhane (12), a pupil at Nzwelule Primary, died on the scene. The circumstances leading to the accident are still sketchy, but eyewitnesses believe the driver tried to avoid hitting a cyclist, lost control of the vehicle and it overturned. The passengers were mostly young church members from the Uniting Reformed Church in Southern Africa at Ha-Manavhela in Vuwani. The passengers were flung from the bakkie and sustained serious head, neck and back injuries. They were transported to and treated at Tshilidzini hospital. Seven were discharged and two were still at hospital at the time of going to press. Rev Anderson Magwira from the Uniting Reformed Church in Southern Africa has urged members of the bereaved family and all stakeholders involved in the preparation for the funeral to be united and work together with their church to ensure that the girl gets a dignified funeral. Magwira urged members of the community to drive responsibly and always obey the speed limit. He expressed his condolences to the affected family. Ms Itani Mudau, spokesperson for the family, said that they were still in shock. “It is only God who knows why it happened like this. It is very painful to lose people like this,” she said. Mr John Vhangani, principal of Nzwelule Primary school, said that Masindi was a bright pupil. “This is a huge shock and totally unexpected. We all mourn her death,” he said. Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said the police were still investigating the circumstances that had led to the accident. Mugovhani will be buried at the Ha-Manavhela cemetery on Saturday. The service will start at 06:00. Dead: Masindi Mugovhane (12).  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za