News - Date: 15 January 2018 Written by: Anton van Zyl / Viewed: 5395 A girl from Vondwe Village near Thohoyandou has become one of the youngest black female conveyancers to be admitted to the High Court of South Africa. Gundo Nevhutanda was born in the Tshidimbini clinic at Vondwe in April 1992. At a very young age she moved to Johannesburg to live with her parents. In 2005, she started her high school career at Sutherland High School in Centurion. “I think that is where my love of debating and public speaking was ignited,” she says. “I joined the public-speaking team, the toastmasters, the debating team and I even wrote articles for the school magazine.” After finishing matric, Gundo went to university to start studying for a degree in law. “I completed two degrees simultaneously, a B Com degree and an LLB,” she said. In December 2016, at the age of 24, she was admitted as an attorney to the High Court. A year later, in December 2017, she was admitted as a notary and conveyancer. “Conveyancing is a very specialized field of law which entails dealing with property,” she explains. “There are only a handful of black conveyancers in the country and, as a 25-year-old lady, I am one of the youngest black female conveyancers,” she says. This is also not the end of Gundo’s academic career. “I am currently completing my master’s degree in banking law with the University of Pretoria,” she says. She is currently practicing as an attorney, notary and conveyancer with Webber Wentzel Attorneys, one of the top five law firms in South Africa. “I always wanted to follow a career path that allowed me to speak and interact with people,” says Gundo. “I am inspired by the opportunities that we as women, and black women in particular, have been given to become anything we wish to. I am motivated by the desire to impact the lives of young women positively and act as a living example to everyone,” she says. Gundo has helped form an NPO, called The Dignify Her Foundation, which assists girls in Limpopo with sanitary pads, to help keep them in school. “I believe in the power of education and also in dying empty, which means living with a purpose,” she says. Gundo Nevhutanda Gundo Nevhutanda Gundo Nevhutanda  Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 27 years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.  Email: anton@zoutnet.co.za