News - Date: 20 January 2018 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 1089 A 35-year-old man, Balanganani Tshisudi, was arrested during the past week, after allegedly terrorizing the Thohoyandou community and surrounding areas since the festive season. According to a statement by the police, Tshisudi is linked to a series of crimes, which include countless robberies. In one of the recent incidents, he and two accomplices allegedly entered Tshimbupfe Mavhulani eating house in Vuwani in the early hours of Sunday, 14 January. They allegedly demanded money at gunpoint and took an unconfirmed amount of cash. During the process, two people were shot in the stomach and leg before the three fled. The injured victims are still recovering in a local hospital. Tshisudi is also linked to business robbery cases that occurred between Tuesday, 2 January, and Tuesday, 9 January, at around dusk at the Tshakhuma Muhovhoya LOC. In that incident, two Ethiopian businessmen were robbed of thousands of rands at gunpoint at their business premises. The police spokesperson added that at around 04:00 on Sunday, the 14th, the police, with the help of community members, cornered the suspects in their hiding place at Phiphidi Thondoni. Tshisudi was arrested, while the other two suspects disappeared into the dark. The cluster commander, Maj-Gen Rosina Mulaudzi, confirmed the arrest and applauded the members of the task team who had spent sleepless nights tracing the suspects. She also extended her appreciation to members of the community who continue to work hand in glove with the police to create a safe environment through community-based structures in place within cluster stations. Tshisudi appeared in court on Tuesday, 16 January, and the case was postponed to 22 January for further investigations. He remains in custody and the other two suspects are still on the run. The suspect, Balanganani Tshisudi (35). Photo supplied  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com