News - Date: 24 January 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 3001 A well-known and respected local businessman, Tshamano “Mackenzie” Mulaudzi (54), passed away on Saturday when he lost control of his car and it hit a tree. The accident occurred on the Fort Edward road leading to Vleifontein. He was alone in the vehicle and, from what could be established, died on the spot. “Mac” Mulaudzi was born and grew up in Tshikota, next to Louis Trichardt. He completed his primary and secondary education at Gwamasenga High School. After school he ventured into the business world and was best known for his hardware store in Vleifontein. He was known for his generous and giving spirit. “He was our business mentor, a selfless caring soul and a father to many,” said family spokesperson Mr Khathu Sadiki. Among others, he assisted many children with bursaries, made donations to various churches and he managed to touch many lives in different ways. Sadiki described Mulaudzi as a pioneer, a born leader and a man of vision. He said the family had suffered a great loss with the death of their father. “It is painful to lose an intelligent father, but we thank God, because He does everything for a reason. May his soul rest in peace,” he said. Sadiki said that Mulaudzi was a very solemn, restrained and dignified man. “For many years, he served selflessly and faithfully in different communities, created employment for many families and in dark days he made himself available day and night to all who needed him,” he added. He said the grief the family was experiencing “also touches us and we will always remember him, because he had done so many good things for this community.” He is survived by his wife and three children. He will be buried at his farm near Louis Trichardt on Friday. The service starts at 15:00. A well-known businessman, Tshamano “Mackenzie” Mulaudzi (54), passed away on Saturday.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za