News - Date: 12 January 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 2070 The police in Thohoyandou have launched a massive manhunt for the suspects who hijacked and killed a man during the festive season. This comes after a 35-year-old man, Ntsieni Mudau, who was allegedly hijacked and his VW sedan set alight, was found dead in the bushes near Tsianda and Mutsha villages. According to the deceased’s cousin, Alusani Munyai, Ntsieni was based in Gauteng for work, and he was supposed to reach home on 22 December. He reportedly called his friends and informed them that he had arrived in Vhembe, and that he was only rushing to offload some people in Makonde village, whom he had given a lift from Gauteng. Mudau’s lifeless body was, however, only found in the bushes the next morning. The police also contacted the family and informed them about the VW sedan that was seen in flames at the back of Thohoyandou Stadium in the early hours of the morning. The police also found some personal items belonging to Mudau scattered about the burnt car, which suggested that they had been forcefully and carelessly pulled out from his luggage. “We have nothing to say at this stage; we are both shocked and hurting,” said Munyai. “We just believe the police will do their job to make sure that the perpetrators in this case are brought to book.” The provincial police’s spokesperson, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, confirmed the incident and said the investigations were continuing. “We will leave no stone unturned in this case,” Ngoepe said. “The motive behind this incident is still unknown.” The police requested anyone with information that can lead to the identification and arrest of the suspects to contact Col Baloyi at 082 704 8299 or the nearest police station. The Tsia-Mutsha stakeholders’ forum, a group that had been formed to bring counselling to victims of crimes and disasters, visited the family. A representative of the stakeholders’ forum, Munna Ndi Nnyi's Bardwell Mufunwaini, condemned the killing. “We are traumatised and aggrieved by this young man's death,” he said. The deceased, Ntsieni Mudau. The Tsia-Mutsha stakeholders' forum were photographed during their visit to the family of the deceased, Mr Ntsieni Mudau.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com