News - Date: 27 January 2018 Written by: Frank Mavhungu / Viewed: 380 Two Giyani-based match officials, Messrs Joel Baloyi and Israel Rikhotso, will not easily forget last Saturday. They were severely assaulted shortly after the ABC Motsepe League game between Mighty FC and Ndengeza FC at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. Ndengeza lost the match 3-4. Baloyi was the match commissioner, while Rikhotso was one of the assistant referees. According to Baloyi, the game was played to the finish without any sign that something unusual would happen at the end. He indicated that things turned inside out shortly after the referee, Mr Roy Mulaudzi, blew the final whistle. Baloyi added that he went to the chairman of Mighty FC, Mr Mighty Tlale, to collect the officials’ travelling fee after the game. On his way to the dressing room, he was confronted by the players and officials of Ndengeza, who accused him of corruption, saying he had received a bribe from Tlale. He said that he showed them the travelling fee of R375, which he had received from Tlale. Baloyi added that crowd followed him to the dressing room where the referee, Mr Roy Mulaudzi, and his assistants, Ms Nana Manaka and Mr Israel Rikhotso, were. According to him, a heated debate ensued between the match officials and an angry mob inside the dressing room. He further indicated that the referee and one of his assistants, Nana Manaka, escaped from the dressing room before the crowd closed the door, leaving him and Rikhotso at the mercy of the angry mob. Baloyi further stated that the mob started to assault them with various objects that they could lay their hands on. Baloyi and Rikhotso were severely injured in the ordeal. The angry mob torn Baloyi’s SAFA jacket in the process. The provincial secretary of the league, Mr Pat Seema, confirmed receipt of the reports from the two clubs and match officials. He reiterated that fact that the league was viewing the matter in a serious light, saying they would make sure that the disciplinary process was finalized within the next three weeks. Mr Joel Baloyi, photographed after the attack. Mr Joel Baloyi, photographed after the attack.  Frank is a Human Resources Manager at the Department of Public Works in Limpopo. He is the longest serving correspondent of the Mirror, having joined us at the end of 1990.  He mainly writes sports reports and resides at Tsianda Village. In 2004, Frank won the National Castle League Award, an award for the best reporter in the SAB league in South Africa.  Email: