News - Date: 11 January 2018 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 199 A fire destroyed NicReg, a popular pub, grill and accommodation venue at Tshirolwe in Nzhelele last Tuesday (2nd). The damage to the buildings and the furniture is estimated at more than R2,6 million.  In an interview with Limpopo Mirror, NicReg’s co-owner, Mr Reggie Mathivha, said that he was not sure what had caused the fire as he had not been around when the incident happened. The fire apparently broke out in the early morning hours. People who were sleeping in the back rooms were awakened by guards warning them that the pub was on fire. The police and firefighters were immediately alerted about the incident.  “The whole thing is still under investigation,” he said. “It is a big setback and hopefully in time things will be fixed.” In a Facebook post after the incident, Reggie wrote: “The entrepreneurship dream is reduced to ashes for now. So far it had been a wonderful and promising journey, filled with successes and failures, each with plenty of insightful lessons. Thanks to all those who have been genuinely supportive throughout. I will forever cherish the wonderful friendships and memories shared with all those who enjoyed the establishment.” A regular customer at the pub, Tshilidzi Mukwevho, said: “NicReg was like a second home, a place of safety and fun for all age groups. It kept us entertained at all times.” She stated that the inferno that had occurred at the NicReg had left scars in the hearts of those who spent restful time there. “We believe that the NicReg shall rise again and we sympathise with the family at this tragic moment,” she added. The provincial police’s spokesperson, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, confirmed the incident. “The pub was totally burnt to ashes with all the furniture and stock inside,” he said. “The police’s investigation is still continuing.” Firefighters try to put the fire out that destroyed NicReg.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com