News - Date: 13 January 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 306 “After the death of my father many years ago, my mother worked in the fields to provide for the family. With the little money she earned, she managed to take me through school and today I am a teacher, an award-winning musician and community builder because of her selfless efforts.” These were the words of the current title holder of a Tshivenda Music Award in the reggae category, Shufflers Ragimana, during the moving funeral service of his late mother, Ms Phophi Ragimana that was recently held at Makonde. Hundreds of mourners forgot the cruelty of death for a while as Shufflers performed some of his best songs during his mother’s funeral service. “My mother loved my music, and this is the best way to say goodbye to her. She was the best mother ever who would go to bed hungry, while she made sure that we were all fed. Though she never went to school, she had a passion for education and she worked hard to put me through school.” A staunch member of the Zion Christian Church (ZCC), Ms Ragimana died at the age of 97 after falling ill. Shufflers said he believed that God had given his mother a long life, because she was a good person. “We were waiting for the three remaining years, so that we could throw a big 100th birthday for her. Unfortunately, God decided to call her. The family has accepted what happened because all of us will one day face death. We really thank God for giving us a wonderful gift in our mother. Pastor Mmberegeni Mbedzi, who officiated the funeral service, thanked God for blessing Phophi with a long life. “If you do good, God will bless you with long life like our mother here. The church has lost a soldier who sacrificed everything to praise the Lord. We have no doubt that wherever she is, the angels are celebrating that she has gone back to where she belongs – the arms of the Lord.” ZCC female choir members sang and danced while the casket was lowered to her final resting place in the Makonde graveyard. The late Ms Phophi Ragimana, mother of reggae musician Shufflers Ragimana. Family members photographed at the gravesite of Ms Phophi Ragimana shortly after the funeral service at Makonde graveyard.  Email: 