News - Date: 29 January 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 373 People are consumers of all that is negative about relationships and marriages and are not always exposed to that which is good and positive about marriage. These were the words of a married couple, Mr Mpho Raphulu and Mrs Rudzani Raphulu, who had just released a book on relationships and marriage entitled Marriage by God's Design –You and Me Together Forever. What started as regular marital advice on social media platforms developed into an instructional book for couples. “We remind married couples that when God created marriage, He created it to be enjoyed and not for partners to have endless tears,” they said. The couple realised that many relationships and marriages around them were suffering. Most friends and relatives did not seem to know how to deal with negative issues regarding their relationships. “The reality is that the high rate of divorce in our country needs to be challenged,” they said. “We witnessed some relationships and marriages around us ending in divorce. That seemed to be happening most times and the status quo didn’t sit well with us, and we knew something needed to be done.” People are consumers of all that is negative about relationships and marriages, and are not always exposed to what is good and positive about marriage. Apart from the book, the couple also holds Marriage by God's Design seminars countrywide. Those interested in the Marriage by God's Design activities and the book that the couple authored, can follow the Facebook page: Marriage by God's Design or @MBGD7 on Twitter. When it comes to matters of love, Mrs Rudzani and Mr Mpho Raphulu would always like to lead by example. Mr Mpho Raphulu and Mrs Rudzani Raphulu authored Marriage by God's Design –You and Me Together Forever. Mr Mpho Raphulu and Mrs Rudzani Raphulu continue to inspire the nation.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com