News - Date: 19 January 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 109 Masungulo Maluleke (17) from Phaphazela said she had a modest recipe for succeeding in the Grade 12 examinations. The Ximunwani High School pupil attained seven distinctions and was one of the top 30 learners in Limpopo. She was invited to the announcement of the provincial results where she received a laptop, a certificate and a trophy. The same day, the school had arranged a surprise party for her. When addressing the school, she said there was no guessing how she had made it. “Everybody knows how I succeeded. I was always reading books and even some of my friends found it difficult to be with me, because that meant reading books,” she said. She is part of a family in which no one is employed, and she sent the school and the rural community into a frenzy after she attained distinctions in physical science, mathematics, geography, life orientation, Xitsonga, English and life sciences. Masungulo (her name means ‘the first’) was praised for being the first in the community and the school for achieving such a feat. The principal of Ximunwani High, Mr Eric Baloyi, said after Masungulo had put the school’s name on the map, they were considering starting a hall of fame where they would inscribe her name in either gold or silver to inspire other learners to do better. “We also thank her granny, Ms Noria Sombhane, who despite not having gone to school herself, was the tower of strength behind her granddaughter and she used to come to school to collect the awards for the girl,” said Baloyi. He described Masungulo as “disciplined, reserved, respectful and a hard worker.” The school’s deputy principal, Noel Manganyi, who teaches physical science (for which Masungulo notched up 98%), said had she failed to get a distinction in any of the subjects, the blame would be laid at the door of the school. Masungulo is heading to the University of Cape Town to do chemical engineering. Masungolo Maluleke (second from left) is sandwiched by her mother, Ms Grace Sombhane (left) and grandmother, Ms Noria Sombhane. Also in the photograph are some of the pupils.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za