News - Date: 21 January 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 284 Two needy families expressed joy and appreciation towards their ward councillor, who is getting houses built for them in the Nzhelele area. The councillor for Makhado Municipality’s Ward 38, Ms Jerminah Rashamuse, had noticed the heartbreaking living conditions of two families. Even though she had submitted the families' names to the housing list in the relevant department, she realised it might take some time before houses could be built for them, since many needy people’s names appear on this list. “I decided to assist these families by seeking donations from fortunate people, so that we could build houses for them,” she said. “Our government is delivering, but then there are many needy people as well, not only in my ward, who need help.” A beneficiary, Ms Rendani Mutula, stays in a shack with her sister and six minors at Raliphaswa village. The corrugated sheet shack is so tiny that it is almost impossible for all the members of the family to squeeze in. “It's hard and painful sharing a shack with other six people because the room is too small,” she said. “We hope this will come to an end soon. Vho Jermina delivers what she has promised. We love her for that. She is a good woman who is restoring our hope of ever owning a house. So far, bricks have been delivered to our yard, and she told us there were 20 bags of cement already paid for at the hardware store.” The unemployed Mr Pfano Ramuntshi currently lives in a dilapidated and shoddy room at Makungwi village. His brother and sister have since left to stay at other villagers' places because of the lack of shelter at home. “None of us has stable work,” Ramuntshi said. “We really appreciate the kind of help that the councillor is giving us. So far, a load of sand and many, many bricks have been delivered to us. They said they would build us a three-roomed house to restore our dignity.” Rashamuse said there was still a need for cement, doorposts, windows, corrugated roofing sheets, roofing poles, and more sand. Those interested in helping can phone 076 990 7671. Cllr Jerminah Rashamuse (right) is seen here with the Mutula family, where a house will be built for Ms Rendani Mutula (middle) and her children. Makhado Municipality’s Cllr Jerminah Rashamuse (right) visited Mr Pfano Ramuntshi at his home, where a house will be built for him soon.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com