News - Date: 12 January 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1305 Disgruntled residents of the Tshikota residential area next to Louis Trichardt took the law into their own hands on Sunday and started to demarcate their own stands on a piece of vacant land outside the township. The opportunistic land grabbers said that they were sick and tired of living in cramped conditions. They are accusing the Makhado Municipality of refusing to develop the land for residential purposes, while they do not have houses. Dimakatso Sebola, a member of the group calling themselves the Tshikota Concern Group, said that they were unable to access RDP houses, because these were being occupied by foreign nationals. While hammering in a stick into the ground (to claim his piece of land), Sebola explained that he was willing to take a chance by illegally erecting his home. “We are tired. We have engaged with community leaders and we spoke to the municipality, but none of them are listening to our problem. When we talk to them they say we don’t have a place, we are still planning. We have 50 unknown houses, they say. Why should we suffer, because we are born here? Who should we go to? Who is in charge of this land and what are they planning?” Sebola asked. The Makhado Municipality’s spokesperson, Mr Louis Bobodi, said that the municipality had opened a criminal case and intended taking action against the people invading the land illegally and demarcating stands for themselves. He said that the municipality had obtained an interim court order, operational with immediate effect, and the police would do what was necessary to stop invasions. Bobodi said that this was not an eviction order, but an action to prevent threatened land invasion. He added that the municipality was warning potential buyers of stands to refrain from doing so, as it was illegal. He emphasised that they should never be tempted to do anything of the kind. Residents busy invading a piece of land illegally and demarcating stands for themselves. Residents busy invading a piece of land illegally and demarcating stands for themselves.   Community members burnt bushes to clear the land they intended to invade illegally. Community members waiting to register to invade a peace of land illegally next to Tshikota.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za