News - Date: 18 January 2018 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 159 The headmaster of Ridgeway College in Louis Trichardt, Mr Bruce Wells, congratulated the matric class of 2017 on achieving good results with a total of 38 distinctions and a 95% matric pass rate. Ridgeway College offers the AS Cambridge and Independent Examination Board (IEB) curriculum exam at matric level. At AS level, a total of 18 students sat for the matric examinations. Fourteen students achieved bachelor passes, with four achieving diploma passes. At IEB level, 18 students wrote the exam, with nine students achieving bachelor passes, six students achieving diploma passes and one a higher certificate. At AS level, the college’s top student was Rolivhuwa Mukoma, who recorded the highest aggregate, achieving five distinctions in Afrikaans, physical science, biology, computer science and mathematics (98%). Four other students also achieved five distinctions in their respective subjects. They were Ahmed Manzoor (Afrikaans, accountancy, mathematics, physical science and biology), Fatima Dawood (Afrikaans, accountancy, biology, mathematics and physical science), Nkavelo Shivambu (accountancy, Afrikaans, biology, mathematics and physical science) and Mishal Aboobaker (accountancy, Afrikaans, biology, mathematics and physical science), while Xin Wang achieved four distinctions in biology, computer science, mathematics and physics (A Level). The top student in the college’s IEB class was Vhuhwavho Nevhugoni, who achieved four Bs in business studies, maths literacy, geography and life orientation. Wells congratulated the college staff on their hard work and the parents on their support and dedication to their children’s education. “We wish the students well as they seek placements at our tertiary institutions,” said the college. Xin Wang obtained five distinctions. Photo supplied. Ahmed Manzoor obtained five distinctions. Photo supplied. Fatima Dawood obtained five distinctions. Photo supplied. Mishal Aboobaker obtained five distinctions. Photo supplied. Nkavelo Shivambu obtained five distinctions. Photo supplied. Top AS-level student Rolivhuwa Mukoma obtained five distinctions. Photo supplied. Vhuhwavho Nevhugoni was the college’s top IEB student. Photo supplied.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za