News - Date: 27 January 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 2311 At first neighbours thought some fire crackers were going off as people were still in a joyful festive mood, but the sound made them suspicious that something was wrong. Upon further enquiry, residents got the shock of their lives when nearby, two people, a mother and son, were found shot dead and the alleged killer was discovered in a pool of blood outside the house. The incident took place on Friday at Khubvi village The woman, Ms Angela Netshiruruvhela, and her son (4-years-old) were shot inside the house. The alleged killer, David Tshiruruvhela, a taxi driver and the husband of the woman, had shot himself outside the house. Circumstances leading to the bloodbath were still vague at the time of our going to press, but rumours doing the rounds are that the husband and wife had problems that involved infidelity for years. Neighbours say they heard what sounded like fire crackers at around seven in the morning, but never thought something so bizarre could have happened. Word spread like wildfire about the incident in the village and within a short space of time many people had gathered around the house as the police had cordoned off the area. Different units of the police were busy collecting whatever evidence they could at the scene. The local traditional leader, Chief Thinawanga Randima, also arrived at the scene and was equally shocked by the incident. He said he was highly disappointed that there were still people who used violence to solve their own problems. “I have been a leader in this area for a long time, but we have not seen something like this. This is really bad and heart-breaking.” He added that several different structures and organizations were available to assist couples with problems. “At our royal court we also deal with minor cases that do not need the police, and if this was brought to our attention, something positive would have come out and this bloodshed averted,” he said. Attempts to get comment from the family drew a blank, as they were grief-stricken. Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said that the incident had stunned the whole community. “At this stage we are not sure what could have led to the shootings, but we are hopeful that investigations will reveal the cause.” He condemned the tendency of people’s resorting to violence as an end to their problems. “We encourage those with problems to seek help and not try to solve their problems in this fashion,” he said. He said they were investigating two counts of murder and conducting an inquest. Pathologists carry the body of David Tshiruruvhela to a hearse.  Grief-stricken famly members wait for the bodies to be taken away. Relatives go into the house where the two were shot dead. The covered body of David Tshirururvhela outside the house where he had shot himself.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: