News - Date: 07 December 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 499 At the tender age of 15, aspiring beauty queen Ethel Tondani Maimela of Muraga dreamt of making it big in the world of beauty. Her dream is fast paying dividends as she wins one beauty competition after another. A final-year law student at the University of South Africa, the 23-year-old has already taken part in eight different beauty competitions and has won seven of them. She is a former learner at Thohoyandou Technical High and is also a make-up artist, an influential blogger, a director of an NPO (EUNOIA) and a gym fanatic. Maimela's star is shining brighter and she is to represent the Vhembe District in the Miss Limpopo Pageant 2019 that will take place tomorrow (Saturday) at the Meropa Casino in Polokwane. “The reason why I entered the Miss Limpopo Pageant is because I want to bring change and spread positivity by being the first girl from this area to win this competition. This will bring change to the Miss Limpopo brand by expanding their resources to the rural communities and I will continue to spread diversity and unity in Limpopo Province,” said Maimela. She added that, as a finalist, she would focus on youth and women empowerment. “I am using my platform to lead as an example to my peers and our future leaders of Limpopo by hosting different campaigns and workshops that are free for any interested individual. The workshops deal with educational topics such as health, business, career guidance, social issues, cosmetics and, obviously, modelling. My aim in life is to educate people that you do not need to have an abnormal bank balance to make a difference, you only need yourself and one soul in need. If you want me to become your ambassador, please vote for me by sending an SMS, Ethel Maimela, to 33389,” she asks. To donate funds for her charity, phone her on 079 737 1185, like her on Facebook at Ethel Tondie Maimela; Instagram@ethel_maimela or www.ethelpositivity.co.za.  Beauty and brains. Tondani Maimela, who is to represent Vhembe District in the Miss Limpopo pageant.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: