News - Date: 02 December 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 185 Prince Gulukhulu Mathebula is the new chairperson of the Vhembe District of the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa). It held its elective conference over the weekend. The conference, attended by many traditional leaders from the four local municipalities, took place at Vhembe District Municipality’s chambers on Sunday. In his inaugural speech, Mathebula, who succeeded Chief Ravhalitsheni Sumbana, said besides taking over from a hardworking team, the new executive would work hard to revive cultural values in communities. He thanked the outgoing chairperson for laying a good foundation for them. Sumbana held the reins for four terms. "We have a lot on our plate, but one of the first things we will do is to visit all our branches. We have a great mission of reviving culture and it must start with our members,” he said. According to him, today’s children are getting lost in Western civilization “and of course we know a nation that does not know its roots is doomed and we do not want that to happen here.” Chief Ravhalitsheni Sumbana said he was pleased to be handing over the baton to a tried and tested leadership. "We have done our part and we are proud to announce that, during our term, we managed to engage government on the issue of salaries for headmen. We now have uniformity on that in all provinces.” Chief Neckson Shavhani urged the new committee to work for the benefit of their subjects. "By allowing yourselves to be elected here, you are now servants of the people. The community expects much from you, and as you will be working with different characters, have big hearts and humble yourselves for the sake of development in your areas," he said.  Former Vhembe District Contralesa chairperson Chief Ravhalitsheni Sumbana (right) congratulates the new chairperson, Prince Gulukhulu Mathebula, after his election. The newly elected Vhembe Contralesa executive at the Vhembe council chambers during their conference at the weekend.   Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: