News - Date: 13 December 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 214 Aspiring fashion designers in Vhembe were highly motivated when veteran fashion designer, Mr Sonwabile Ndamase, recently visited them. The visit was organised by the director of Enerhu Business Enterprise, Mr Rhulani Ndobe. Ndamase urged the young designer students not to take a poor background as a yardstick to measure future success. He is the founder of Vukani Fashions and had sewn the shirt that late South African president Nelson Mandela was buried in – one of many that he had made for the great man. He said he had had humble beginnings. "Poverty drove me to where I am today. It all started when I used to help my mother in mending clothing for local clients. It got in me and I told myself that if my mother could do it, I could do it better. I had a dream and that is what took me here where I am," he said. Ndamase further indicated that the local textile market was saturated and needed local designers to be innovative and to take their indigenous designs to the next level. "As a role model, I am here as a way of ploughing back and to tell the aspiring designers it is possible. I started from nothing at a rural setting and what I have observed here is that there is a lot of talent. If these industries could be revitalized, many job opportunities could be created," said Ndamase. Thulamela ward 38 Councillor Sabelo Magatshavha urged the students to use the opportunity that was afforded them by the government. "You have the whole world at your fingertips. The future is determined by yourselves, and I urge you all to go out and make a meaningful contribution in your communities by creating jobs for yourselves and others," he said. One of the designers, Ms Ashley Mabundza, said she was very motivated to have met Ndamase. "He is not just an ordinary designer. Just listening to him speaking and seeing some of his designs was quite inspiring," she said.  Designer Sonwabile Ndamase shows one of his creations during his recent visit to Shayandima.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: