News - Date: 23 December 2018 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 553 Mr Phunzhela Sikhwari (53) from Thohoyandou Block F recently completed his master’s degree in social work at the Bedfordshire University in the United Kingdom. Last year, Sikhwari finished his BA honours degree in health and social care at the Luton Campus of the Bedfordshire University. He continued studying at the prestigious university and during November this year, he completed his master’s degree in international social work and social development. Sikhwari said that he was motivated to study further because he wanted to return home with different skills and knowledge. “As a person who is working and studying outside the country, I want to come back with different knowledge and skills instead of money.” Sikhwari said that he still aimed to further his studies and complete a doctoral degree, “so that when I retire, I will go back home and serve my people with international experience and higher qualifications”. Sikhwari grew up in Duthuni village and he matriculated at Mbilwi in 1985. He then enrolled at the University of Venda and he started working at Liberty Life Insurance as sales manager, prior to his move to the UK in 2006. Sikhwari also advised young people to “focus on studying, so that you can liberate yourselves and have opportunities to choose where you want to be in this world”. Sikhwari has been living in the United Kingdom for 12 years now. He said he also wanted to experience the way people in the United Kingdom lived compared to the residents of South Africa. “Things here are different in terms of how people live and treat each other,” he said. “Different in a sense that everyone has an equal chance to funding, everyone is given full whole control of what they are doing and information is available on the Internet and the technology is also advanced.”  Mr Phunzhela Sikhwari (53) from Thohoyandou Block F recently completed his master's degree in social work at the Bedfordshire University in the United Kingdom.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com