News - Date: 08 December 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 364 The water crisis at Muledane has reached boiling point, with residents threatening to boycott the elections next year. For two weeks now, residents of Muledane Block N have not had a drop of water in their taps even though they have their water coupons showing that they have bought the water at the Vhembe District Municipality (VDM). The crisis comes at a time when water is the most sought-after commodity as the weather is extremely hot. At some areas under the VDM, the temperature has risen to 42 degrees. For the past two weeks, residents who have the means had to drive to nearby Shayandima to fetch water from relatives, while others bought water from locals who have boreholes at their yard. Resident Cynthia Ravhuhali said the past two weeks have been like hell to residents. "We have suffered enough; we dearly need water. This has been the longest time we were without water here. Water is life and without it we are like moving corpses. We use it for drinking, washing and the worst part, our toilets need water also. Our houses are now stinking without water," she said. Ravhuhali further indicated that they were very excited when they were told they would be getting water from a municipal tanker on Tuesday, but, to their disappointment, that did not happen. "We waited for the trucks since 08:00 in the scorching sun, with no truck showing up. We are tired of empty promises and if they do not come today, we will get them during elections,” said Ms Margareth Masindi, another of the angry residents. Block N civic secretary Ms Maria Tshivhase said they reported the shortage to the local councillor, who promised that tankers would supply them with water from Tuesday. VDM spokesperson Mr Matodzi Ralushai confirmed a water shortage in villages around Nandoni Dam as a result of a damaged pump. "Water Affairs is busy fixing the pipe and as soon as it is fixed, we will start pumping water to our residents. We are doing our best to supply water to residents using the tanker system.”  Waiting for the unknown: residents of Muledane wait in the scorching heat for a water tanker.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: