News - Date: 08 December 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 813 The fatal shooting of a 45-year-old female social worker has left her family, friends and the townspeople shocked and baffled. In an incident that occurred at Makhado Park in Louis Trichardt, a social worker at the Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital, Ms Thinavhuyo Muzila, was shot multiple times and killed upon arriving home last Friday at about 21:30. Muzila was parking her vehicle, intending to enter the house, when unknown suspects emerged and shot her, killing her instantly. According to the provincial police's spokesperson, Col Moatshe Ngoepe, the police were summoned to the crime scene and reacted swiftly. “The deceased was found lying dead with multiple gun shot wounds on her body, and a manhunt ensued,” Ngoepe said. “The motive behind this incident is not clear at this stage, but the police's ongoing investigations will shed light on the incident.” Ngoepe stated that a case of murder had been opened. The suspects are still unknown and therefore no arrest has been effected yet. The deceased's uncle, Mr Peter Muzila, said that the family was shocked by the incident and that they were trying their best to accept the loss and rely on the police to solve the case. “We are very sad after the killing of one of our own,” he said. On learning about the incident, the DA's spokesperson on safety and security, Ms Katlego Phala, expressed the party's sadness. She called Muzila's death a loss to society as a whole, since social workers are a necessity in communities and play a pivotal role in society. “We condemn this violent shooting and believe there needs to be greater police visibility in our communities and the safety of communities,” Phala said. "Women and children must be prioritised, by an honest and professional police service. The DA would like to pass its sincerest condolences to the family and friends of Ms Thinavhuyo Muzila and will continue to monitor the progress of this case." Muzila will be laid to rest at Misevhe ya Mbwenda section of Mashau Gift Tshandani on Saturday. The service will start at the Dutch Reformed Church at 06:00. Muzila is survived by her two daughters. Anyone with information that can lead to the identification and apprehension of the suspects can contact D/Sgt Tshilidzi Nthembuluseni at 082 215 3171 or the crime stop number 0860 010 111 or the crime line SMS 32211 or the nearest police station.  Ms Thinavhuyo Muzila.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com