News - Date: 14 December 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 268 The National Lotteries Commission (NLC) and the National House of Traditional Leaders (NHTL) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) aimed at strengthening the collaborative partnership between the two organisations for the benefit of rural communities. The signing of the MoU took place a fortnight ago at The Ranch Hotel near Polokwane. This MoU is a revival of a previous arrangement that existed before the amendment of the Lotteries Act. The amendment of the Act has improved access to funding, so that a wider range of organisations that were previously excluded by stringent application criteria can be funded. Speaking after the signing event, NLC chairperson Prof Alfred Nevhutanda emphasized the value of partnerships such as this one in ensuring that rural communities were not left behind. NHTL chairperson Ikosi Sipho Mahlangu emphasized the importance of traditional and rural communities in the lives of South Africans, many of whom reside in urban areas but call these communities home. He thanked the NLC for their commitment to a rural bias when distributing funds and shared the NHTL’s own commitment to contributing resources towards areas of collaboration and playing an oversight role as proactive, developmental monarchs. Areas of collaboration in the MoU include the provision of support to NPOs in rural communities to increase their eligibility to access NLC funding. The parties also envisage capacity-building programmes in rural communities to effectively manage community-based projects, ensuring sustainability. The MoU hopes to assist in establishing monitoring and evaluation processes that support best practice in providing capacity building for rural communities, and promoting awareness of the regulatory role of the NLC as per the NLC Act.  NHTL chairperson Ikosi Sipho Mahlangu and NLC chairperson Prof Alfred Nevhutanda (right).  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za