News - Date: 25 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 809 The police made a breakthrough when they arrested the two daughters of the late Levubu policeman, W/O Alugumi Nemugumoni (54), who was stabbed to death at his home at Tshakhuma last Monday. Two brothers who are suspected of killing him were also arrested. Nemugumoni was allegedly attacked when he arrived home after work. He served the police for 29 years. He was stabbed as he entered his house last week. He was buried on Sunday. His two daughters and two alleged hired assassins, who are brothers, have been arrested in connection with his murder. His murder has shocked the peaceful community of Tshakhuma, with many questions left unanswered. Allegations are that his murder was a carefully planned hit, with the killers promised R50 000 each after the murder. According to information supplied by reliable sources, the motive behind the killing was to get the officer's pension and insurance. Things apparently started falling apart in the family after the cop's wife fell in love with another man. Since then, it is alleged that there has been no peace in the family and constant fighting took place in the house. The mother allegedly broke up with the boyfriend and went back to her husband, but not before passing on the daughter, Nyambeni, to the ex-boyfriend, whom she married. The man passed away a while later and Nyambeni went back to her father's home. Hardly four months after she had returned home, the mother apparently broke up with her husband and, together with her children, relocated to Khwekhwe village. The children only came back to their father's home last year. Both girls are high school dropouts. Reacting to the incident, Vhakoma Vho-Takalani Neluvhalani said the whole village was shaken. "Crime is becoming a big problem here, and as royalty we cannot win the war against crime alone. We had a meeting of various structures and we will have a follow-up meeting at the police station this week, where we will chart the way forward," he said. Those who appeared on Monday are the deceased's daughter, Nyambeni Nemugumoni (26) and alleged assassin Khathutshelo Tshisudi (24). The ones arrested last week are Calvin Tshisudi (19) and the deceased's other daughter, Phophi (21). All four will appear in court again on Friday (today). Provincial Commissioner Lt-Gen Nneke Ledwaba has expressed his delight and has commended all members involved in succeeding to crack the case.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za