News - Date: 08 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 545 The top six officials of the ANC’s national executive council visited the Dzanani Royal House on Saturday, where they had a meeting with Vhavenda King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana. The ANC delegation was led by the newly elected president of the party, Cyril Ramaphosa. Later the same day, the entourage proceeded to Malamulele in the Collins Chabane municipal area to also interact with traditional leaders there. On Sunday, they visited the Bolobedu Royal house outside Tzaneen and the Bapedi King in Sekhukhune respectively. The reason for the visit was stated as being part of the party’s ongoing engagements with various community structures. Traditional leaders are afforded an opportunity to raise their concerns over service delivery and other issues of governance. Thunderous cheers and ululations greeted Ramaphosa on Saturday when he addressed the community. Ramaphosa spoke at length and warned against tribalism. He encouraged unity in Limpopo among the Venda, Pedi, Tsonga and other traditional groups. Ramaphosa said that, even though there were service delivery concerns, those would not be raised with the top ANC officials at the time, because of the nature of the visit. King Toni Ramabulana steered clear of politics but pledged his “unreserved support” for Ramaphosa in his new position as ANC president, and the efforts to lead the country out of the current state of “anarchy, despair and maladministration”. “We should steer them to the side, just like unroadworthy vehicles. Those corrupt must be moved to the side,” he said. Ramabulana described Ramaphosa as “the son of soil in Venda, where his umbilical cord is buried” adding that people from around are “proud to have produced a leader of his stature”. Chief Livhuwani Matsila, who is a staunch supporter of and an avid lobbyist for President Cyril Ramaphosa, could not hide his excitement and labelled the event as “an historic occasion never to be forgotten”. Matsila said that the country was now in a positive and jovial mood since Ramaphosa had taken over the power of leading the ANC. “As traditional leaders, we welcome this fresh approach of reviving our relationship with the ANC. This is a clear indication that the ANC belongs to our people and it is a movement firmly rooted in rural communities,” said Matsila.  From left to right are Chief Livhuwani Matsila, Vhavenda King Toni Mphephu Ramabulana and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. A young traditional dance group, Nyavhumbwa wa dakaila, welcomed the top six of the ANC.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za