News - Date: 19 February 2018 Written by: Wilson Dzebu / Viewed: 74 “The challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality in our society are the basis through which our thinking should be centred as we undertake this strategic planning session.” These were the words of Musina Mayor, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, when addressing councillors, traditional leaders, members of the management team of Musina Municipality and representatives from sector departments during the municipality’s three-day strategic-planning meeting that was held at Bela-Bela last week. The meeting discussed service delivery progress, challenges and the future of the municipality. Muhlope said as part of planning, the municipality must ensure that priority be given to discussions around the Special Economic Zone, which is currently under development at Musina as a means to improve the living conditions of the people in the municipality. “This massive development will create thousands of jobs and we need to have plans on how to embrace it. The municipality should be prepared to handle the development and the pressure that come with this huge investment.” She added that the officials needed to remind themselves of the vision of the country as contained in the National Development Plan. “In addition, our key priorities, which include education, health, the fight against crime, creating decent work as well as rural development and land reform, should set the basis through which our strategic objectives should emanate. In our all discussions let us also take cognizance of our commitment to attain a clean audit, and let us collectively strive towards putting in place measures to guide us towards this clean audit. I am confident that, through your valuable inputs, we will develop good strategies and tactics to guide us in delivering excellent services to our people.” She commended the municipal management team led by the municipal manager, Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi for holding departmental build-up meetings before the strategic planning session.  “I am grateful that today’s meeting is a culmination of a series of management and portfolio meetings wherein departmental issues and plans where dealt with holistically. I am confident that this approach will make things easier as we will be able to fully understand each department’s contribution to the development of the municipality,” she said. Mayor Mihloti Muhlope addresses councilors, traditional leaders, members of the management team of Musina Municipality and representatives from sector departments during the municipality’s strategic-planning meeting.  Email: