News - Date: 08 February 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 354 Residents at Tshisahulu Makulela were in a happy mood this week, following the fixing of a burst sewer pipe that had made their lives uncomfortable. Their ordeal started three weeks ago when the main sewer pipeline, believed to be from Tshilidzini, burst and started flowing straight into the residential area, leaving a very strong smell that made their lives miserable. Residents say that the smell affected their health and they could no longer enjoy their lives and meals. Some who were lodging at a house in the area had to vacate their rooms because of the unbearable smell. Some said they fell sick because of the smell and complained that it had taken too long for the municipality to respond to their plight. But all this is now history as the pipeline has been fixed. One of those who were adversely affected by the sewage, Mr Thomas Mafadza, who works in the nearby industrial area, said he was relieved that it had been fixed. "I use this road on a daily basis and was forced to use an alternative route, because of the spillage that was flowing down the road. I had to change my time in order to reach my work place on time and this inconvenienced me. I am just worried that it took them a very long time to repair a pipe that is just at their doorstep." Vhembe District Municipality spokesperson Mr Matodzi Ralushai said that they did not know about the burst pipeline, but that as soon as they became aware, they activated their teams that repaired the pipeline. Local ward councillor Ms Nditsheni Mulaudzi said she had received a complaint from the residents and reported it to the municipality, who dispatched a team that repaired it. "We are a caring government and we cannot allow a situation where our people suffer, and we are extremely happy that their problem has been solved," she said.  Villagers pass next to the sewage that made the lives of locals miserable. A river of spilled sewage passes through a residential area at Tshisahulu Makuleni. The stinking spill has given residents a hard time.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: