News - Date: 26 February 2018 Written by: Wikus Lee / Viewed: 752 A well-known theologian and former collaborator of Limpopo Mirror, Prof Derrick Mashau, was recently appointed as Chair of the Department of Christian Spirituality, Church History and Missiology at the University of South Africa. According to Mashau, the appointment came at a time when he needed new challenges in his academic life. “I have, from my humble beginnings as an academic, grown and managed to publish 21 research articles in accredited journals and 10 books to date,” he added. He has already supervised nine masters and 15 doctoral students to the completion of their studies. He said that while his research profile was growing, it was time that his years of experience in management and administration should also receive recognition. The Department of Christian Spirituality, Church History and Missiology comprises three disciplines, namely Christian Spirituality, Church History and Missiology. Mashau said that it was his main responsibility to turn the department around and give it a new facelift in terms of the university’s corporate identity and their core business. He mentioned that the first thing that one must achieve would be to ensure that they do not just generate new theological knowledge that will gather dust in libraries, but also spread it widely to ensure that it contributes positively towards nation building and social cohesion. “I will also make it my priority that the research component of this department does not fall short of producing cutting-edge research that is ground-breaking and contextually relevant.” He added that the department was at present implementing a community engagement programme, focusing on reaching out to the homeless folks in Tshwane. As part of the project, Mashau said, he would ensure that the use of the Recognition of Prior Learning process was widely sold to the communities to ensure that prospective theological students who would have never hoped to be part of the university could get access. “This process will not only be promoted to cater for the homeless in Tshwane, but for all spiritual and community workers or any other person who desires to study theology,” he added. Should anyone want more information regarding his department and theology in general, people can phone Mashau at 082 971 2725 or write to mashatd@unisa.ac.za. Prof Derrick Mashau.  Email: