News - Date: 01 February 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 622 The neat appearance of a 25-year-old murder suspect, Tshimangadzo Tambani, left many court-goers baffled as they spoke among themselves in hushed tones while discussing him last Friday. “He’s so handsome in those chocolate-coloured trousers, white shirt and beige sweater!” Others added: “Who gives him such an impeccable police haircut, because he is in jail?” “Oh, what a handsome guy,” some others said. However, Tambani appeared unperturbed when he appeared in the fully packed Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court, following allegations of murdering his girlfriend, Glenda Radzilani, at Madombidzha village on 31 July 2017. He was appearing for a bail application, but the matter was postponed to 2 February. The court said that the accused’s legal representative was not available. Once his case was postponed, women’s rights activists and supporters, who had come in large numbers to give support to the victim’s family, walked outside and stood in a group. The representative of Ward 23’s Women’s Forum, Ms Refiloe Maokeng, said that they were quite disturbed by the endless postponements. “We would like to see justice taking its course in this case,” she said. “We will stop at nothing to see that Tshimangadzo gets what any murderer deserves. The suspect deserves no bail, and we’ll fight harder if by any chance he is granted bail.” Rinae Sengani Foundation’s executive director, Rinae Sengani, said that the organisation would continue fighting until justice was served for Glenda. “Tshimangadzo should know that resting is not an option for us,” she said. “He must just prepare for a fight to keep him locked up forever. He killed a human being who had a life to live, and not a chicken.” The accused’s bail application is continuing today (2 February) at the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court. Rinae Sengani says that the Rinae Sengani Foundation will continue to fight for justice to be served for Glenda Radzilani.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com