News - Date: 11 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 837 A livestock farmer of Muwaweni is devastated, following the discovery on Monday morning of the remains of nine of his cattle that were stolen and killed by thugs. Mr Ndanduleni Ndou said this was the second time that cattle had been killed for their meat the past year. “When I went back on Sunday, seven cows were missing. I looked for them where the others were grazing, but I couldn’t find them. It was getting late, so I decided to go home and told myself I would find them the next day,” said Ndou. What Ndou discovered the next morning was shocking. “The thugs start by cutting off the tail, as they believe this will weaken the cow, and then they cut off its legs and slaughter it, taking the meat and leaving the bones,” said Ndou. He said he believed that the thugs had sold the meat to butchery owners. He said that similar incidents had occurred before, but he never thought it would happen to him. “We can have peace of mind only when the police catch these thugs. It is painful, because one of the cows was pregnant,” he said. Ndou said that they were now forced to stay awake every night to guard their livestock. Limpopo police spokesperson, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said they were investigating a case of stock theft. “Nine cows were allegedly slaughtered in the bush during the night. It is believed that livestock thieves rounded up the animals in the veld and moved them to a safe spot where they slaughtered them. Their heads and intestines were left at the scene,” said Ngoepe. No arrests have been made yet. Residents found the remains of the slaughtered cows. The remains of one of the slaughtered cows.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za