News - Date: 03 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1697 A professional nurse and manager of the Mavhunga Clinic, Ms Ester Semithi (46), was killed in a shooting incident at Raliphaswa on 18 January. The deceased’s husband, Tshilidzi Simethi (53) and a friend, Tsundzuka Hlengani (27), were arrested in connection with the incident and appeared in the Dzanani Magistrate’s Court last Tuesday. The case was postponed to 5 February for a bail application. The spokesperson of the Limpopo Police, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, confirmed the incident. Mojapelo said that the incident took place at about 20:00 and the two men apparently run away afterwards. They were arrested in Gauteng a few days after the incident. Mojapelo advised people with differences to seek professional help and confide in people who were close to them if they had challenges. “We have opened a murder case against the husband and friend and are still looking for two more suspects, who are still on run." The family spokesperson, Mr Nditsheni Magonono, said that they were relieved that some of the suspects had been arrested but were greatly saddened about the way she had died. “Our sister was killed in the most barbaric manner, and we do not even know what wrong she could have done. We know she will not return and we wish for the law take its course,” he said. Cllr Germina Rashamuse expressed concerns about Simethi’s death. She said that the local Women’s Forum was saddened about her death and still reeling with shock. “The incident has disturbed every member of the community and family. It is difficult for us to accept the loss,” said Simethi."We are so surprised that one of the suspects is her husband." The deceased, Ms Esther Simethi (46).  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za