News - Date: 24 February 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 873 Hard work, dedication and determination proved to be a combination for success when a long-serving senior police officer, Capt Aifheli Livingstone Mulaudzi, was admitted as an advocate to the Polokwane High Court with effect from 9 February this year. A resident of Mbokota village near Elim, Mulaudzi said that he had always wanted to become a law practitioner and that being admitted as an advocate was a dream come true. “I thank God who gave me the energy, strength and wisdom to read books and study harder in preparation for my LLB degree,” he said. “Studying while you are a breadwinner, family man and taking care of ones’ sibling and working as a head of vehicle crime investigation section in Limpopo, has demands of its own. I had to pull up my socks.” Mulaudzi completed his matric at Marimani High School in 1985 and joined the Venda police service in 1987. He had worked at different police stations and different units through the years, gaining more experience and achieving more excellence. In 2001, he obtained a national diploma in policing, and went on to complete a bachelor of technology degree (Unisa) in policing in 2004. “In 2015, I graduated with an LLB degree from the University of Venda,” he said. “My motto is ‘perseverance is the mother of success’.” He thanked his family, the founder of the True Life Christian Church, Apostle Makhanani Ringani, Samson Ringani, and the church members for all the support and motivation during his studies. “I am a man of big dreams,” he said. “I am still aiming high. Being admitted as an advocate in the high court is only a new chapter that will be followed by more chapters in my life. With God, all things are possible.” Mulaudzi is still working in the South African Police Services’ vehicle crime investigation section and believes that he will join the legal service in due time. Counsel JT Ramaboea (left) welcomes Advocate Aifheli Livingstone Mulaudzi as an advocate in the Limpopo High Court. Advocate Aifheli Livingstone Mulaudzi is ready to practice in the High Court.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com