News - Date: 09 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 144 A suspected lovers’ triangle might have contributed to the death of two people at Mpheni on Sunday. Ms Daisy Netshikhudini (32) and Mr Sunnyboy Brand (32) of Nkuzana were allegedly stabbed to death at a tavern at Mpheni. According to the SAPS’s spokesperson, Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe, the facts surrounding the incident are still extremely sketchy. It is alleged that a man and a woman (possibly his girlfriend), were enjoying a drink at a local tavern. The woman then apparently left the man to speak to what could have been a former lover at the tavern. Lt-Col Ngoepe said that the accused had apparently received information that the woman was having a love affair with the other man. The suspect allegedly confronted them and stabbed the two with a sharp object. The suspect then allegedly fled the scene, leaving the bodies sprawled in a pool of blood. The suspect is still at large. “We would like to urge people to desist from violence in the event of misunderstandings. They should rather try to resolve their disputes in an amicable manner or opt for counselling to avoid unnecessary loss of life,” said Ngoepe. According to a community member who prefers to remain anonymous, they were aware of reports that the suspect had heard that his girlfriend was having an affair. He confronted the two, who were drinking together, and stabbed the woman several times. He then turned on the man and stabbed him. The police were called, and they found the deceased covered in a blanket, with visible injuries to their heads.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za