News - Date: 25 February 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 258 Pupils from Tshixwadza Primary School, Fefe Primary School, Siloam Primary School and Mangwele Primary School recently benefited from the Nefuri Foundation when the foundation donated toilets, school uniforms and sanitary towels to the schools. The foundation's founder and director, Ms Mpho Nefuri, noticed that the pupils' lives where compromised at Tshixwadza Primary School, where they were using dilapidated toilets that were always flooded with water. “We stepped in and erected three toilets,” she said. “We wanted to contribute to learners' safety and to make their environment conducive to learning. We also donated many sanitary towels and shoes to the other schools, bringing a moment of joy and excitement to learners.” An attorney based in Pretoria, Nefuri said that the foundation had been established solely to help children, women and LGBTIQ persons and their rights. “We provide legal and social services by intervening where a violation of human rights occurs,” Nefuri said. “We aim to changes lives and encourage the needy to work hard with what they have. The inner smiles and love from learners after receiving shoes are always amazing. If each of us can adopt one needy child, we'll have an educated country filled with love and humour. It all comes down to love. Love your neighbour as your own, protect the child as yours. Let's make pupils' need a first priority.” The principal of Fefe Primary School, Mr Ntshengedzeni Munzhedzi, said that they appreciated the work that the foundation was doing. “Here in our school, help was extended to needy children who mostly relied on social grants for their livelihood,” he said. “So, you can imagine the impact that the project is making in the community.” Ms Mulweli Nefuri helps a pupil, known as Naho, to put on her new pair of school shoes. Tshixwadza Primary School received a gift of toilets to ensure pupils' safety on the school grounds.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com