News - Date: 17 February 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 196 Thohoyandou Cluster Commander Maj-Gen Rosina Mulaudzi has sent a strong warning to criminals and those still planning to commit crime, that their days of freedom are numbered, and they will soon be behind bars Mulaudzi officially launched Operation Fiela 2, which aims to rid the whole cluster of all forms of criminality in towns and villages. It was held at Thavhani Mall’s parking area. Prior to the main event, Mulaudzi visited several schools in the area and the royal palace at Mbilwi. The proceedings started with a march around town by uniformed police, led by a brass band. The launch was attended by different stakeholders and many members of the community, who all pledged support for the campaign. In launching the operation, Mulaudzi warned criminals they will not have anywhere to hide as the police will be all over. She said with the information they were getting from the community it would be just a matter of time before they “round up” all the criminals. She urged communities in which those criminals reside to warn them they should stop their evil ways or else jail would soon be their home. "These criminals stay in your midst and you know of their evil ways. Please work with us, and in no time this place will be free of all forms of criminality. We can now promise you that we will leave no stone unturned in sniffing out the criminals; we are all going out and we will be everywhere," she said. The CPF chairperson, Mr Ntshengedzeni Ñetshiombo said the community was captured by crime. "There are so many murders, house robberies, assaults and incidents of domestic violence. Violence is at an all-time high and this needs us to jointly work with the police to defeat the scourge of crime.” Chief Ndiyangandothe Magoloi of the Mphaphuli royal house urged the police to raid taverns and liquor outlets as they are breeding grounds for crime. Phathutshedzo Mudzuli of the Youth Against Crime told those gathered that they were ready as the youth and that they were just waiting for a command to do their best and assist in ridding the area of crime, Those in attendance were entertained by different groups. Maj-Gen Rosina Mulaudzi shows her traditional dancing skills during the launch of Operation Fiela at Thavhani Mall last Friday. Maj-Gen Rosina Mulaudzi (left) and senior officers lead a march at Thavhani Mall before the start of the campaign.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: