News - Date: 12 February 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 545 Situated in the deep rural village of Folovhodwe within the Musina Municipality, Dzimauli High School has reason to celebrate. This is the only school that obtained a 100% pass rate during the 2017 Grade 12 results in the Niani Circuit. One may very well ask: “How does a rural school without a library, laboratory and modern educational facilities achieve this?” According to school principal Julius Ramphabana, the secret is hard work, effective time management and inclusive cooperation between the learners, educators, school-governing body, parents and various community structures. Ramphabana said the school’s Grade 12 results had improved from 76,5% in 2016 to 100% in 2017. “Last year, we had 42 learners in Grade 12 who all passed satisfactorily. Despite limited resources, we are happy to be on record as the only school that produced a 100% pass rate in the Niani circuit.” The school presently has 595 learners and 21 teachers. He said the school management, parents and learners had agreed to extra lessons to prepare the children for their year-end examinations. “We have a study session that starts at 06:00 before the formal school programme starts. We also have lessons that are taken after school and on weekends. These are some of the things that help us to attain good results.” Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlope visited the school last week to convey her congratulations. Much to the excitement of the teachers and pupils, she announced that she was adopting the school and that she would work with them to make sure that the school stayed on top. She committed to sponsoring outstanding performing learners with mayoral awards later this year. She commended the educators, learners and parents for the great work of producing good results at the school. “Judging by the level of your commitment, I have no doubt that this school will maintain the 100% pass rate this year. You have really made our municipality proud,” she concluded. Mayor Mihloti Muhlope delivers a motivational talk to learners of Dzimauli High School.  Email: