News - Date: 04 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 165 Phalaphala FM recently started with an initiative where the station will be visiting various chieftaincies in Vhembe with the objective of building a strong relationship between the station’s listeners and royal chieftaincies. The station kickstarted the roadshows by initially getting the blessing from Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana. The show took place on 25 February at Ha-Matidze. They then took the roadshow to Ha-Muila, then to Nweli and the fourth one to Ha-Kutama. At Ha-Makuya, under Thovhele Vho-Lavhelesani Makuya, the station’s listeners were entertained by Tshivenda traditional dances, domba, tshigombela and tshikona, a soccer match between Phalaphala FM and the Makuya old rocks and several local artists such as Shufflers and Mazwale. Last Friday, the station broadcast their popular talk show, hosted by Mpho Rathando. The programme focused on culture, geographical matters and citizen food for the Ha-Makuya people. Different listeners across the ages were also interviewed on the show. The station’s on-air personnel also motivated pupils from Makuya Secondary to work hard at school. The team of motivational speakers comprised Mr Tshililo Nelufule, Mulalo Ramarumo and Mpho Rathando. Phalaphala FM also donated school shoes to Maholoni Primary School pupils. The events coordinator of Phalaphala FM, Mr Lufuno Munonde, said the station had, over the years, managed to build an emotional bond with its listeners as demonstrated by their continuous support of “Phalaphala FM to the Rescue” projects, such as shoe donations, building a house, sanitary towels donations, and any other CSI projects that seek to address poverty alleviation or respond to those who are in dire straits. “We pride ourselves on our listeners as they continue to support our station and participate daily in our shows, including our events. Our aim is to educate, preserve, promote and protect Tshivenda culture and customs. We will try and visit as many parts of our listeners’ footprint to be closer to our listeners because we love them.” “This is an indication that Phalaphala FM continues to connect to its listeners and will always strive to inspire in line with the corporate vision of the SABC. There is no doubt that we endeavour to build an emotional bond between us and our listeners. As the station celebrates its 53rd birthday, we would like to continue thanking our loyal listeners who are contributing to our annual project, ‘Phalaphala FM to the rescue’, by donating shoes and sanitary towels, so that we can give hope to those who are less fortunate,” said Munonde.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za