News - Date: 02 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 320 A 35-year-old resident of Indermark, Justice Raphasha, was arrested and charged with the murder of his girlfriend. The young woman was killed on Thursday morning at Manavhela near Kutama. Details of the murder of Rendani Muthivhi (24) are still sketchy as she was alone with her children at home when the incident occurred. SAPS spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed the incident and said that it occurred at about 08:00. It is alleged that the suspect had used a sharp object to stab the victim repeatedly. "The deceased sustained serious head injuries and her left hand was totally cut off. Her right hand was also broken and she had multiple wounds in the face. She died at the scene," Mojapelo said. “He (Raphasa) appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court on Monday, and he will appear again on 6 February,” he said. “Bail was not granted.” The local traditional leader, Vhamusanda Vho-Nkhangweni Manavhela, said that young people were now resorting to killing as a way out of their problems. “Something must be done to remedy the situation. Government and non-governmental organizations should intensify their campaigns,” he said. The family spokesperson, Mr Caiphus Muhali, said that the three children she had left behind were traumatised. “I feel distraught,” said Muhali. The family went along with the community members who had brought the news to see for themselves what had happened. He said that the way the young woman had died had affected the whole family. “We are worried and still traumatised about the incident,” he said. Muthivhi will be buried on Saturday at Manavhela. The service will start at 06:00.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za