News - Date: 03 February 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 463 The Tshilwavhusiku police have opened a case of business robbery and attempted murder, following an incident where eight unknown suspects allegedly robbed two local businesses last Thursday. The suspects allegedly stole a vehicle, which they used to travel to a local tavern at Magau. One of them produced a gun and threatened the occupants with death if they made any noise. The other suspects ordered the men in the store to hand over whatever money they had with them. The robbers thereafter proceeded to Ramantsha, where they allegedly ordered the tavern keeper to hand them cash and ordered the customers to lie down. The robbers shot two people, aged between 26 and 30, who were visiting the tavern. The suspects then fled, taking the bakkie of the owner of the tavern. The vehicle was later spotted by the police, driving in the direction of the R578 road to Elim. The Waterval police were alerted, who managed to stop the vehicle. The suspects left the vehicle in the road and ran away. According to the spokesperson for the Limpopo SAPS, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, the suspects got away with cash and beer. “We appeal to members of the community to assist us with information that may lead to the identification and arrest of the other possible suspects in this case,” said Mojapelo. He said that a suspect was later arrested by the Waterval Police after the man had gone to the police station to report a case of the theft of a vehicle. When he was questioned by the police, he was identified as one of the suspects who had allegedly robbed the two taverns. The car used was reported stolen at Malamulele earlier this year. The suspect, Mr Lufuno Matamela (26) of Tshakhuma, appeared in the Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate's Court on Monday. He remains in custody and he is scheduled to appear in court again on 6 February for a bail application.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za