News - Date: 19 February 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 426 “After completing my Grade 12 with flying colours, I never thought it would be possible for me to realize my dream of going to university, because I had a shortage of funds. Thank you to Musina Municipality for affording me the opportunity to further my studies through the mayoral bursary.” These are the words of Ronewa Matamela from Bale village in the Ha-Manenzhe area. He is one of the six new, successful students from poor families who qualified to be funded by Musina Municipality mayoral bursary this year. Matamela is doing a degree in industrial psychology at the University of Venda. The bursary covers tuition fees, books, food and accommodation. Brain Liwani is another beneficiary and hails from Musina Nancefield. His parents are unemployed and cannot raise enough money for his university education. He is studying for a BSc degree in mathematical and computer sciences at the University of Venda. He said jubilantly: “Applying for funding by the mayoral bursary was my last hope as I did not get a satisfactory response for other bursaries. I’m happy that I will now be able to further my studies and come back to work for the community of Musina.” During a special meeting with the beneficiaries, Mayor Mihloti Muhlope encouraged the students to forget about their poor financial backgrounds and work hard to get their qualifications. “There are hundreds of students out there who did not get this opportunity and you should consider yourselves very lucky. We want you to complete your education, so that you can come back and help us to develop our communities. It is only through education that we can reduce poverty in our community.” In the past three years, the mayoral bursary has produced nine graduates who have been offered work contracts in different departments of the municipality.  The municipality is currently financing 11 students who are furthering their studies at different institutions of higher learning. Mayor Mihloti Muhlope is photographed with the new beneficiaries of the mayoral bursary.  They are, from left to right, Ronewa Matamela, Fhumulani Malovhele, Monica Mwanza, Mosiwa Makane and Brain Liwani. Thuso Nenweli was not available when the photo was taken.  Email: