News - Date: 19 July 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 656 Cllr Titus Netshipale of Musina Municipality described deceased municipal employee Mrs Shandukani Mercy Mutele as a hard worker whose contributions to the development of the people of Musina would live forever. Netshipale was addressing family members, municipal employees, worshippers and mourners who attended Mutele’s memorial service at Madimbo Community Hall last Thursday. Mutele passed away early last week after falling ill. She was buried at Ngovhela graveyard, near Sibasa, on Saturday. Netshipale said for the past 13 years that Mutele had worked for the municipality, there had never been a time where she had been accused of misconduct. “She was a dedicated employee whose clean record speaks for itself. We hope the remaining municipal workers will learn from her that it is rewarding to work with dedication.” He described her as a hard worker, a friend and a mother who would not sacrifice her work for anything. Ms Gladys Makungo, who worked with the deceased, said Mutele had been a dedicated and God-fearing person whose departure had left a void at the Madimbo municipal offices. “She taught us to love our job as cleaners. She always told us that cleaners are the most important people in any institution, because they are the face of the organization. Now that she is gone, I don’t know how life would be without her.” Makungo said that as staunch member of the Zion Christian Church, Mutele had been the organizer of weekly prayers in the workplace. “We will miss her dearly, but we are comforted by the fact that she loved the Lord and she was a prayer warrior who taught us to love God wholeheartedly. May her soul rest in peace.” Representing the South African Municipal Workers Union, of which Mutele had been a member, Mr Charles Mokwena said the deceased had been a disciplined member who had loved her work. “We are very saddened by her departure because we were still expecting many good things for her. She was a source of inspiration to many workers and we will always remember her.” Family representative Samuel Nemapakoni thanked everyone who comforted the family during the difficult time. The late Mrs Mercy Mutele. Cllr Titus Netshipale (right) hands over a framed picture of the late Mercy Mutele and flowers to her children, Vanessa and Jacky, during their mother’s memorial service at Madimbo community hall last week.  Email: