News - Date: 16 July 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 855 “We are glad to bid solar systems goodbye and start using electricity which our government has given us here in our village. We are now enjoying the fruits of service delivery from our municipality.” These were the words of a 33-year-old lady, Ms Suzan Mufamadi, after the Makhado Municipality's mayor Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi and other stakeholders officially switched on electricity at the new stands of Tshikhwani village. “We stayed here for years without electricity, but our government supplied solar systems to us and promised to bring us electricity in due time,” Mufamadi said. “The challenge with solar systems was that one couldn't operate stoves, fridges and other electrical appliances. It was generally for lights, small televisions, radio, and for charging our mobile phones. Today we are happy because the municipality fulfilled their promise.” Sinyosi said that the municipality is writing a positive history for the residents of Tshikhwani village. “It took us many years to plan and eventually bring this service to your community,” she said. “We urge you as residents to take care of this finished and functional project and allow no criminals to vandalise it. Even if you happen to get angry because of something else, please do not vandalise this project.” She advised residents to always approach the ward councillor if they have other infrastructural needs. “Do not try to force the government to give you other infrastructure which you had already received,” she said. She acknowledged the project constructor for hiring the students from Vhembe TVET College in his project as part of students’ intern training. The local traditional leader, Vhamusanda Vho-Mbulaheni Ramabulana, expressed the village's gratitude and called upon villagers to celebrate. “This project is a cause for celebration, and let's continue to protect our infrastructure,” he said. “Our municipality has done a lot of good things for us and we are thankful.” Makhado Municipality's mayor Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi (middle) switches on the electricity at the house of Ms Suzan Mufamadi (left). Also in the picture is Vhamusanda Vho-Mbulaheni Ramabulana. The local traditional leader, Vhamusanda Vho-Mbulaheni Ramabulana (left), expressed the village's gratitude and called upon villagers to celebrate. Also in the picture is Vhamusanda Vho-Ntsundeni Sinthumule.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com