News - Date: 15 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 249 The time of sitting in cosy offices, while people are suffering outside, is over. So says Thulamela mayor Cllr Mushoni Tshifhango, as he joined field workers in filling potholes. The mayor led by example last Friday, when he and his executive, office staff and extended public works staff entered the streets filling potholes at worn-out streets in Sibasa. Darned in work suits, the mayor was joined by the senior local traditional leader Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli who also spent most of the day working. About the initiative, mayor Tshifhango said it was in line with the Thuma Mina call by President Cyril Ramaphosa. “The time of sitting in offices only doing paper work is over. Our people need services outside and we do not have to wait for them to complain. We cannot depend on staff outside there, we must go out and give a helping hand where necessary,” he said. He added that they will help with the electricity, water and road challenges facing communities and “we believe together we can do more for our people,” he said. Tshifhango further indicated that they have another programme Hu Duba Buse, which is aimed at improving village streets and many communities would benefit. He said the Thuma Mina programme will also give him time to monitor staff outside and to motivate them. Mr Rendani Mulaudzi, acting senior manager technical services thanked the mayor for his initiative, saying his staff members were very motivated by working alongside the mayor. “This is good leadership, leading by example,” he said. Cllr Mushoni Tshifhango (right), Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli (second from right) and other workers busy fixing the road at Sibasa. Thulamela mayor Cllr Mushoni Tshifhango (with wheelbarrow), Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli (fourth from left with spade), Thulamela speaker Cllr Grace Mahosi (fifth from left) and other staff members busy filling the potholes at Sibasa.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: