News - Date: 06 July 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 437 Former president Jacob Zuma described the late MEC for Agriculture in Limpopo, Ms Joyce Mashamba, as a disciplined comrade who influenced the communities she served in a positive manner.

Zuma was speaking during her funeral at the Mudavula Stadium outside Malamulele on Saturday.

Zuma said that Mashamba always found a way to engage with people. "She was a loyal and galant comrade who would complete her assignments during the time we were in exile," Zuma added. "She was a true reflection of what the ANC Women's League should be and we urge other women to follow in her footsteps. It's very unfortunate that she passed away when our country is facing a serious challenge of women and children abuse. This is the time when we need her most."

Mr George Mashamba, her husband, described his wife as someone who loved serving and helping other people. "My wife always put other people first. She was a loving and caring wife. She left me with a huge void, and I so wish I could go with you, my wife," he said.

Ms Jessie Duarte, deputy secretary general of the ANC, asserted that the ANC had lost a loyal and humble servant of the people who had dedicated her life to fighting for the freedom of this country. "She left her children and family to join the ANC to fight for the democracy of this country. We will surely miss her loving and caring heart,” she said.

Ms Bongani Mashamba, daughter of the deceased, described her mother as loving and caring mother who always taught them to humble themselves and to be disciplined.

The funeral was also attended also by Hosi Phylia N'wamintwa and Ministers Blade Nzimande, Jeff Radebe and Nomvula Mokonyane. Mashamba died at the age of 67. ANC deputy secretary general Ms  Jessie Duarte, Limpopo Premier Stanley Mathabatha and former president Jacob Zuma, photographed at the funeral of Ms Joyce Mashamba. Members of the SAPS carry the coffin of the late MEC Joyce Mashamba.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: