News - Date: 23 July 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 220 The Deputy Minister of Energy, Ms Thembisile Majola conducted an electrification project inspection and walkabout at Musina Nancefield last Thursday. This was part of the cabinet’s National Imbizo Focus Week aimed at promoting public accountability and reassuring citizens of the government’s commitment to service delivery and good governance. Majola said the Department of Energy, through the Integrated National Electrification Programme (INEP), aimed to achieve universal electrification access to all by 2025 as stipulated in the National Development Plan (NDP). She said electricity was a basic human right that should be accessed by all community members with ease. “Electricity transforms people’s lives, because it simplifies life. When you have electricity, you can buy food in bulk and store them in a refrigerator, thereby saving a lot of money. Besides that, when you have lights at your house, it means that you have additional security at night.” Majola said she was happy that the electricity supply works were going well in Musina Municipality. “It is good to note that our people are serviced with dignity. We are working with the municipality to implement energy efficiency programmes to teach our people to save electricity.” She said the government was working tirelessly to make sure that all areas, especially deep rural villages and the farming areas, were electrified. “We are sometimes faced with challenges on private land where some of the land owners refuse us entry and permission to service the people who stay in their areas.  We are working with various stakeholders to resolve these challenges.” A member of Musina Municipality’s executive committee, Cllr Jeremiah Khunwana, said the visit would help to track the implementation and measurement of the effectiveness of the electrification programmes that are happening in Musina. “As local government, this will also help us to detect if there are interventions to be done in line with the quality of work that is being conducted. We are very grateful to be part of the Integrated National Electrification Programme, which is drastically improving the lives of our people.” As part of the energy efficiency programme, Thembisile Majola handed over several portable solar-powered lights to residents at Nancefield Extension 14. Ms Margaret Molase (81) is one of the community members who received solar-powered lights from the Deputy Minister. “Thank you so much for these gifts that will help to bring down my electricity consumption,” she said.  Ms Margaret Molase (81) (left) hugs the Deputy Minister of Energy, Ms Thembisile Majola, upon receiving solar-powered lights last Thursday. Handing over the lights are, from left to right, Cllrs Fistos Mafela, Carol Phiri, Jeremia Khunwana, Siyaphi Shirilele, Deputy Minister Thembisile Majola, Cllr Carlton Netshivhulana and Musina Municipal Manager Nathi Tshiwanammbi.  Email: