News - Date: 14 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 1351 A call was made for the community to continue giving support to the grief-stricken family of the 8-year-old girl who died mysteriously while on a school trip in Durban. The incident took place a fortnight ago. Rinae Mutheiwana, a Grade 2 learner at Sheshe Primary School outside Thohoyandou, was found behind the block of flats they were staying in. How she ended up there remains a mystery as even those who were with her could not explain how she died. She was buried during a solemn and sombre funeral on Saturday at the local cemetery after a service was held at her home. Many community members, school staff, fellow learners, family, relatives, the ward councillor and church members braved the chilly winter weather to give he a befitting send-off. Cllr Leah Nelufhangani said the death of the young learner is a tragedy that befell not only the family, but also the community. “This death left us with more questions than answers. Only God has the answers and we have to leave all to Him. Let’s all pray for them that God heal their wounds,” she said. Family representative Nditsheni Nyamutambo said they were saddened by the passing on of Rinae. “She was a child of God who attended church conferences and was a very respectful child. We know we cannot change this situation and have accepted that she is gone.” Rinae was born at Dovhoni in 2009, where she started school. At the time of her death she was in Grade 2 at Sheshe Primary School. Rinae's parents, Mr Tshilidzi Mulibana (seated left) and Ms Beauty Ramaliba are being comforted by relatives during the funeral. The coffin of little Rinae is being lowered during her funeral at Sheshe. Family members of little Rinae during the funeral at Sheshe on Saturday.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: