News - Date: 30 July 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 907 Residents from various remote villages recently received access to a cell-phone network for the first time. This follows the construction of the Duvhuledza ICT tower communication network and its presentation to residents during a ceremony at Mumbvumoni. The new site at Duvhuledza is part of Vodacom’s rural-coverage network-expansion programme, aimed at increasing network coverage for people who live in deep rural areas of South Africa. Ms Tsatsi Mthimunye, executive head of operations for Vodacom in the Limpopo region, said that they had embarked on a crucial network-investment drive, so that they could address coverage gaps in very deep rural areas. “As part of this programme, we’ve become the only network provider to deploy a base station to Duvhuledza village.” The new base station site, which is 3G- and 4G-enabled, will also provide coverage to nearby villages such as Mpandoni, Duvhuledza, Mubvumoni and Tshimbolimbo. These communities have a population of more than 30 000 residents. Mr Vincent Sigari, one of the villagers, said although the current era was one of technology, it was a huge setback for them not to be connected with the rest of the world. “We have had to travel a long distance to just to get cell-phone coverage to make a call. Although it took many years, we are happy that our plea has been answered," he said.  Messrs Zi Ndebele and Bongani Mngomezulu (Vodacom operations manager), Headman Alpheus Nemubvumoni, Mr Vincent Sigari, Ms Tsatsi Mthimunye (executive head operations of Vodacom, Limpopo region) and Mr Eric du Preez of Vodacom, photographed during the event.    Ms Tsatsi Mthimunye, executive head of operations of Vodacom in the Limpopo region.   Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za