News - Date: 06 July 2018 Written by: Ndivhuwo Musetha / Viewed: 108 Former MEC for Sports, Arts and Culture, Ms Onicca Moloi, has resigned. This was confirmed bythe Limpopo premier’s spokesperson, Mr Kenny Mathivha, in an official statement released on Tuesday. Mathivha confirmed that Premier Stanley Mathabatha had accepted the resignation Moloi “with immediate effect.” The statement further said the Premier thanked the MEC for the sterling performance she had executed in the department for the past few years when she was a member of the executive council. “Although we wished her to stay longer, we wish her good luck in her future endeavours and hope she will perform her duties with the same energy she did when deployed in government,” said the Premier. Mathivha also stated that Treasury MEC Rob Tooley had been appointed to act in Moloi’s position until it was filled permanently. It is also expected that Mathabatha will replace the late MEC Joyce Mashamba (Agriculture and Rural Development) soon. She was buried last Saturday. Although Premier Mathabatha had earlier stressed that he was not planning to change his cabinet until next year’s elections, Mathivha conceded that the Premier might change his mind at any time. “It might be today, tomorrow or next month, we don’t know.  But yes, anything might happen anytime,” said Mathivha. Asked if he was surprised by Moloi’s sudden resignation, Mathivha said: “MECs do not apply for their jobs, but they are deployed. This is a political position that can change anytime, with no reasons given. The same principle applies when they are appointed,” said Mathivha. It is alleged Moloi’s resignation was sparked by her rift with new ANC secretary in the province Soviet Lekganyane. It is also alleged that Moloi refused to be nominated for a PEC position after she lost her contest for the position of deputy secretary to Biskop Makamu. Suspicion exists that she is unhappy that she was booed by delegates after she lost to Makamu during the provincial conference. The name of Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani and that of Makamu has been mentioned as possible replacements for Mashamba and Moloi in the cabinet. From the archives -  former MEC Onica Moloi (right) with Premier Stanley Mathabatha at the Univen Stadium celebrating Africa Day.  Email: