News - Date: 21 July 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 223 Several schools around Musina and Blouberg Municipality recently attended the De Beers Venetia Mine Career Guidance Expo, which encouraged them to consider careers in various areas. The event took place at the Musina Show Grounds and Makgato Hall. Mr Bonani Nyabane from De Beers Venetia Mine told students that “the high failure rate is caused by a lack of proper career guidance. I want pupils to get information and advice on a spectrum of opportunities for higher learning and skills development to help them make their career choices.” During the event, pupils were provided with information on universities, colleges, course programmes, financial aid, bursary schemes, and training opportunities. "We found that many pupils do not have access to information on careers. That is why many of them do not know which career they should follow after completing matric,” Nyabane said. He added that education was the most powerful weapon to defeat the poverty and unemployment hindering rural communities. “Your future belongs to you, and it is up to you how you build and shape it. It is through hard work and dedication that you can move higher and higher." Guest speaker and renowned businessman Mr Simphiwe Mdlalose advised learners that a poor family background did not mean that they could not reach for the sky. “Some of us were born and raised in poor backgrounds, where our parents could not afford education for their children. With good matric results, some bursaries are up for grabs. You must not be proud of your parent’s qualifications, but rather be boasting of your own,” he said. He pointed out that youngsters need to fend off distractions, such as discos and parties where they are enticed to imbibe liquor when they should be studying. “Such a lifestyle might seem enjoyable and feel good, but I am telling you the truth - it only lasts for a short moment and then your future gets lost in that nice time,” he said. Pupils should know what they want to be later in life and should make decisions that they will not regret. To do this, he said, pupils should surround themselves with people who can help make a difference in their future lives since bad relationships can divert one from one's intended goals. He advised pupils to have successful people as role models who can encourage them to work hard to achieve those goals. “Having a role model in life usually helps a person to be able to draw a picture of where he or she wants to be in the future,” Mdlalose added.     Pupils from different schools received guidance from different instutitions. The guest speaker, Mr Simphiwe Mdlalose, advised learners that a poor family background did not mean that they could not reach for the sky.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za