News - Date: 29 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 313 “One life lost on our roads is one too many,” said Thulamela Mayor Mushoni Tshifhango when he participated in a traffic road block at Dzindi outside Thohoyandou on Friday. He was accompanied by members of his executive and councillors when he joined his traffic police at a road block that focussed on general road transgressions Besides the few transgressions that the mayor picked up from motorists, he also used the time to greet passengers, while at the same time giving them road-safety tips. He said the municipality had declared war on road traffic offenders and that they would deal with them decisively. "We can't just pretend as if nothing is happening, while our people perish on our roads and we know the root cause for most of these accidents is the human factor - road users who do not adhere to the rules of the road. Our being here is a sign that we care about our citizens," he said. Tshifhango further said they were reinforcing their patrol capacity and had procured eight new vehicles for that purpose. He added that his involvement at the road block also gave him the opportunity to assess how his officials were doing in the field and to motivate them. Dr Thinandavha Munwana, head of traffic in Thulamela, said they were greatly encouraged to have the mayor working with them. He said the road block was just one of the normal operations they carried out from time to time. "These operations are bearing fruits as our visibility deters possible offenders,” he added. According to him, their main goal was to have an accident-free municipality and all adhering to the rules of the road. He further indicated that as part of their Vision 2030, they were planning to have more officials everywhere, some of whom would be on foot, some on horseback and some using motorbikes. "Let us see your particulars," says Thulamela mayor Mushoni Tshifhango (second from left). With him are senior officer Mr Matodzi Mulanduli  (left ), Thulamela chief of traffic Dr Thinandavha Munwana  and Thulamela Chief Whip Cllr  Grace Mahosi.  A  parade briefing by Thulamela chief of traffic Dr Thinandavha Munwana before the start of the road block. On the left is Thulamela Mayor Mushoni Tshifhango, listening attentively.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: