News - Date: 22 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 478 History lovers and readers from across the country learnt with shock and sadness about the passing on of the great historian, academic, scholar and veteran writer, Dr Mphaya Nemudzivhadi (87). Nemudzivhadi of Makwarela in Sibasa was admitted to the Netcare Pholoso Hospital in Polokwane last week and passed away on Sunday morning. He had been ill for some time. His son, Adv Khathutshelo Nemudzivhadi, said that his father would be buried at the local Mbaleni cemetery on Friday (today). A memorial service was held yesterday. “My father was a good role model to us. He was the best father one could wish for in this world. We will always remember him for all that he was to us,” he said. Immediately after news of his passing away surfaced, tributes started pouring in. One of the first people to pass his condolences to the family was Premier Stan Mathabatha, who described his death as not only a loss to the family but to the country. Mathabatha was the guest speaker when Nemudzivhadi launched his book, King Makhado Ramabulana - The Lion of The North, in Thohoyandou in 2017. Nemudzivhadi has written extensively about the history of the Vhavenda nation. Nemudzivhadi is survived by his wife Dorothy, five children, Dr Rendani Ladzani, Adv Khathutshelo Nemudzivhadi, Dr Dietana Kobe, Arinao Nemudzivhadi and Dakalo Nemudzivhadi, as well as grandchildren. Born at Mukula outside Thohoyandou, Nemudzivhadi had an illustrious career as an academic and author. He started his teaching career at Vendaland Institute in 1957 after completing his training at Pretoria Bantu Normal College, the college that shaped the likes of Bishop Desmond Tutu and James Mzilikazi Kumalo. In 1964, he became a inspector of schools in the Louis Trichardt area. He also served as circuit inspector at Mutshundudi and Vhuilafuri. Among other duties, he served as a member of the Venda Language Board, and in 1979 he became the director general in the Department of Education in the former Venda. He authored numerous books and delivered several papers. He also published several articles and obtained his PhD at the Vaal Triangle Campus of the Potchefstroom University in 1998. Dr Mphaya Nemudzivhadi.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: