News - Date: 07 July 2018 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 192 A few (un)lucky individuals were carefully selected to be jailed at the Louis Trichardt SPCA on Saturday, 21 July, as part of the organisation’s annual Jailed & Bailed fundraiser. The individuals’ mission (they have no choice but to accept it) is to collect bail money to be set free! They will only be allowed their cell phones (to call friends and family to come bail them out), some water, a blanket and maybe some snacks. Jailbirds are also allowed to start a campaign for themselves ahead of the time and have funds transferred into our account with their names as reference to get a bit of a headstart on the day. “Who will be our top jailbird for the day, and which jailbird might not even be set free? Make sure you do not miss out on the action. Follow our jailbirds weekly in the newspaper and on our Facebook page,” invite the management of the local SPCA. The Jailed & Bailed fundraiser will take place from 10:00 until 13:00. Delicious food and sweets will be on sale, as well as the local SPCA’s whole range of merchandise. “You will get to see the jailbirds sweat it out in the kennels while they wait to be bailed out. Come and enjoy the day with us. Spend some time with our animals and get some lunch while you are there,” invites the SPCA team. Local Rotarian, DA councillor and businessman Brian du Plooy is one of the (un)lucky few to be jailed by the Louis Trichardt SPCA on 21 July. Read the article to find out how to get him out. Photo supplied. Ms Irene Adendorff, deputy principle of Louis Trichardt Primary School, is another candidate for the local SPCA's Jailed & Bailed fundraiser. Photo supplied.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za