News - Date: 23 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 325 The recently launched Shayandima Pastors Forum says it has the mammoth task ahead of reviving the township of Shayandima and ending the ills such as drug abuse and crime and bringing back morals. The forum was elected from a spectrum of church leaders from Shayandima during an event held at the Christian Worship Centre at Shayandima on Sunday. Different stakeholders, including the local Sanco, the Senior Citizens Forum, Munna Ndi Nnyi, the ward councillors, the police and the business fraternity, attended the launch. Dr Alunamutwe Randitsheni was the guest speaker The new committee is: bishop Daniel Mafhungo (chairperson), pastor Solomon Mabulannga (vice chairperson), pastor Makananise Tshigovha (secretary), pastor Daniel Mafadza (vice secretary), pastor Marble Thovhakale (treasurer), bishop Ndikandafhi Makhuvha (organizer), pastor Lufuno Nemaungani (PRO) and the additional members are Vhaingameli-Vho Abraham Ramabulana and pastor Martha Mbulungeni. Mavhungu said that the forum had a great task of uniting the whole community and hoped to achieve that by working with all structures in the township. "Top of our agenda will be to visit all schools and pray for all learners before the start of the end-of-year examinations.” He added that they were also faced with the “troubling scourge of crime that is tearing our community apart, and together with other structures, we are going to tackle it head on”. He also mentioned the usage of drugs among the youth as a source of concern. Mafhungo further indicated that their other mission would be to unite all churches in Shayandima to operate harmoniously with each other The newly elected Shayandima Pastors' Forum's executive committee members.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: