News - Date: 21 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 508 The Matsila Community Development Trust, known for its prominent role in job creation and poverty eradication in rural communities, was pleasantly surprised by an unannounced visit by the Minister of Environmental Affairs, Ms Edna Molewa. The surprise visit took place on Saturday, when Molewa paid a courtesy visit to the Matsila Royal Family, where she had lunch with Chief Livhuwani Matsila at his royal house. She then undertook a site visit to community environmental projects, where she witnessed the phenomenal recovery of indigenous vegetation, because of a bush-clearing project that has been funded her department. The land is now home to 10 buffalos, 12 eland, 20 impala and 15 nyala, which are roaming freely inside the community game farm. It is supported by the Department of Environmental Affairs and SanParks, which donated the animals. Molewa was very impressed with the sustainable environmental projects that are creating jobs and local economic opportunities for the Matsila people. The Matsila Community Development Trust - which also owns a chicken farm, chicken hatchery, an abattoir for chicken and red meat, a vegetable farm and a top-class tourist lodge,  among others - has become a classic example and beacon of hope that rural communities could sustain themselves. The projects, which created employment for around 500 locals, have attracted many prominent people and leaders, among them Chief Nkosinathi Maphumulo of the Maphumulo clan in KwaZulu-Natal. Organizations and many traditional leaders have sent delegations to the projects on learning exercises. The founder of the Matsila Trust, Chief Livhuwani Matsila, expressed excitement and gratitude for the Minister’s visit and described it as good news for prosperity and success for his community. Chief Livhuwani Matsila and Minister Edna Molewa at one of the projects during her surprise visit to Matsila.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: