News - Date: 13 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 4052 In what is believed to be part of the ongoing taxi related violence in the country, a 65-year-old taxi owner was gunned down in cold blood just as he entered his home at Thohoyandou Block F on Wednesday morning. The well-known taxi owner, Mr William Nethononda, a member of the Johannesburg Long Distance Taxi Association, met his untimely death after allegedly being followed and ambushed by unknown hitmen at his home. The incident that shocked the community of Block F and taxi operators in the area happened on Wednesday at around 8:00. Several spent shells were found next to the vehicle. It is believed that five bullets hit him in the body from close range. Residents staying nearby said they heard a speeding car followed by gunshots. Within a short space of time the area was swarming with curious onlookers who wanted to see what had happen. Soon police cordoned off the area and different teams arrived to take charge of the scene. At the gate near where the vehicle in which he was shot stood, were grief-stricken relatives, some of whom were crying uncontrollably. Even the devastated wife of the deceased, Ms Joyce Nethononda, came to the scene when the body was being carried away in a government mortuary van. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a neighbour said they heard a speeding car which was followed by gunshots. “It was so sudden. I was not far from here and when I went out to investigate I saw a white Yaris with Gauteng registration numbers also parked next to the house. I saw one man who went back to the Yaris and sped off. That is when we realised our neighbour was stone dead at the steering wheel of his car. It was so terrifying, and it will take time for me to forget this incident,” she said. The deceased’s daughter, Fortune Tshilande, said the family had received threats for some time now from people that were known to her father. “At one time they killed the dog here and the family felt insecure and had to hire a security guard who worked in the evening,” she said. She further indicated that her father left for the taxi rank in the morning and it looked as if the assailant was following him all the way back to his home. She added that it was only after he had parked the car at the gate that the attacker shot him several times. He died on the scene. “Our father was a loving person who took care of all of us. We have lost a good teacher who always came up with solutions when we had problems.” She further indicated that the family will not be safe when the attackers are still at large. She urged the law enforcement agencies to speed up their investigations and to apprehend the perpetrators. At the time of going to press on Wednesday, we were still waiting for comments from the Limpopo police spokesperson,  Col Moatshe Ngoepe. Anyone with information which can assist the police in arresting the suspects involved in this matter, may contact Captain Richard Boshomane at 079 894 5501 or the crime stop number 0860 010 111 or the crime line SMS 32211 or the nearest police station. The body of Mr William Nethononda is being taken away in a government mortuary van. He was killed at the entrance of his home. The late Mr William Nethononda The body of Mr William Nethononda is being taken away in a government mortuary van. He was killed at the entrance of his home. Griefstricken family members comforting each other at the gate where Nethononda was shot in cold blood.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: