News - Date: 07 July 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 217 As part of celebrating Youth Month, the True Worship Christian Centre (TWCC) recently held a one-day conference where best performing and artistic pupils were awarded with certificates and trophies as tokens of appreciation and motivation towards their academic work. The church is situated at Midoroni village in the Kutama area. The conference also featured a talent search, themed TWCC got Talent, where the attending youths were treated to talented activities that included dancing, singing and poetry. The head of the youth ministry at the church, Pastor Ndivhuwo Sikhau, said the church saw it was necessary to become involved at all levels of young people’s lives. “As the church we are deeply entrenched in the youth ministry,” he said. “We need to be there in our young people’s lives, from home to school and church. Young people must feel the benefits of living in Christ.” Charles Tshivhundo, who won the overall prize for his poem How Great, said the talent search was fun-filled and entertaining. “One feels great to be recognised by the people I church with,” he said. “It tells me that I am on the right path as a youth. We need to learn, play and grow inside the church. If fun is only found outside the church, then the youths will have to be outside the church.” The youths who attended the one-day conference were motivated and said that the positive messages could not have come at a better time. “Drug abuse and blessers are an in-thing in this area. I was happy that we were made to value life beyond the current challenges,” said one of the youths, Livhuwani Mudau. “I believe a lot of us will be better persons because we are surrounded by pastors who provide good advice on life.” The event was capped by first-quarter academic awards for Grade 10, 11 and 12 students. The awards were a pre-cursor of the end-of-year ceremony where best-performing pupils were showered with gifts for an academic job well done. The Grade 12 top mid-year achiever award went to Vuledzani Manngo of Kutama Secondary School. Charles Tshivhundo won the overall prize for his poem How Great. The three Grade 11 pupils, Ndivhuwo Ligavha (3rd), Princess Radzuma (2nd) and Tshedza Mathegu (1st place).  The Grade 10 pupils who were also given awards are (from left to right) Mulanga Mutenda (3rd), Rotondwa Mavhungu (2nd) and Murembiwa Ramabulana (1st).  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com