News - Date: 06 July 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 54 One of Limpopo’s senior traditional leaders whose name has been linked to the VBS Mutual Bank scandal has strongly denied that he had received any cash or gifts from the bank’s main shareholders. Two weeks ago, some media reports alleged that several senior traditional leaders had received R50 000 per month, presumably for supporting the Vhavenda king, Toni Mphephu Ramabulana. Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli’s name and those of other traditional leaders such as Chief Makuya, Chief Rammbuda and Thovhele Mmbangiseni Masia have been mentioned on social media as being on the payroll of Vele Investments. In an interview with Limpopo Mirror, Mphaphuli stated categorically that everything said about him on social media about the VBS saga held no truth and was simply fabricated news. Mphaphuli said that he learnt with shock that he was supposedly receiving a monthly salary of R50 000. “I wish to clarify that, as head of the Mphaphuli Royal Family and all structures related thereto, I currently do not have any account registered under my name with VBS. The same applies currently to all structures under Mphaphuli Royal leadership. All claims to the contrary are deliberate lies aimed at spreading unnecessary confusion and to unduly cast aspersions against my name, my dignity and integrity,” he said. He further indicated that it was a fact that Venda tradition dictated that the Mphaphuli Royal House did not qualify to be part of the structures that were culturally empowered to nominate the successor of the Ramabulana Royal House. “Even in the Ramabulana royal family, it is not all who have inherited the Ramabulana or Mphephu surname who qualify to nominate the successor; it is only the selected few, normally not more than 10,” he said. He said no matter the amount offered, it would be absolute folly to expect him to have the capacity to hold influence, let alone to sway the process towards the determination of the Ramabulana incumbent. “I propose strongly that false claims to the effect that I have benefited financially from VBS ought to be dismissed with the contempt it deserves. I also commit my cooperation, much as I stand open to investigations around the question whether I have benefited financially as falsely claimed by those with foul and devious intentions,” he said. “I would also like to extend my empathy for all the people and communities who are negatively affected by the whole saga,” concluded Mphaphuli  Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli denies having any dealings with Vele Investments or having received any money from the company.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: