News - Date: 13 July 2018 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 205 A Grade 11 learner at Mbanyela High School in Maphaphila village near Malamulele, Maanda Mavhuthu, has recently started the Mavhuthu Sisterhood Programme, aimed at empowering women to be better sisters to raped and emotionally and spiritually weak young women. Her first sisterhood programme was hosted in the Hlekani Complex hall in Malamulele on Saturday. More than 20 young women who have suffered the trauma of being raped as well as women who are emotionally and spiritually weak attended the event. They received messages of support, presentation and encouragement from the different pastors, psychologists, nurses and social workers. Mavhuthu (17) said part of the vision of her organization was to empower young women, treasure their safety, and to foster self-discovery, wellness and success in young women’s lives. “I found out that in my village of Malamulele Section D, formerly known as Mabandla, many young women are victims of being raped, and have no one to comfort and encourage them that it is not the end of the world. I want to empower young women in my community with self-discovery, perseverance and spiritual growth,” said Mavhuthu. She said she also provided cosmetic products and other needs to poor and orphaned people in her community. According to Mavhuthu, she wants young people in her village to follow in her steps and be able to know their passions and how to realize them. Ms Linkie Chauke, registered counsellor from Voringa Psychological and Wellness Centre, said she advised young women to be dream chasers. “As young women, you need to start something from scratch and not be the follower of some people’s driven ideas,” said Chauke. One of those young women who attended the event said that the workshop was an eye opener, because they were told to realize their dreams through persistence and hard work.   Ms Mokgadi Magozi, a nurse at Shiluvane Life Care Centre in Malamulele (left), Mavhuthu Sisterhood Programme's Maanda Mavhuthu (right) and some of the people who attended the workshop.  Email: