News - Date: 21 May 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 217 The Tshivenda Bible Literacy Material launch by the Bible Society of South Africa received a thumbs-up from stakeholders that attended the launch. The launch that took place at the Shayandima AME Church on Thursday, was attended by many Grade R, 1 and 2 learners from the local primary schools, education officials, Pan South African Language Board, various foundation phase teachers, church and community leaders and a delegation from senior traditional leader Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase. All the learners who attended the launch received a set of the literacy booklets. The basic literacy project comprised of two booklets, “My first Bible Do and Learn Book”, (Bivhili Yanga U ita na U guda Bugu ya 1 and “My second Bible Do and Learn Book” (Bivhili Yanga U ita na U guda Bugu ya 2,) which are specifically aimed at preschool children and foundation phase learners. Speaking during the launch, Chief Lambani Tshivhase praised the Bible Society of South Africa, saying they have taken the right direction towards the development of the Tshivenda language. Prof Thifhilufhelwi Muloiwa if the Pan South African Language Board also acknowledged the importance of the material. He congratulated the Bible Society of South Africa for having come up with the project saying it will benefit children who relate better in their own mother tongue. "This is a step in the right direction, the previously marginalised languages are now being elevated. This is a milestone in indigenous languages and in you we see a partner in furthering our aims as an organization," said Muloiwa. Pastor Mike Roodt, head of church and community engagement at the Bible Society of South Africa, said that they are extremely excited to have managed to have come up with such literacy material. He said the material will enhance the reading as well as the writing abilities of young children. "Furthermore, they will help the children to engage with the Word of God by using biblical characteristics in the literacy material.” He further indicated that the material is now available in English, Afrikaans, isiXhosa, Sesotho, isiZulu, Sepedi, Tshivenda and Xitsonga and that they will eventually be available in all eleven official languages. From Shayandima the Bible Society of South Africa team proceeded to Malamulele where the Xitsonga Literacy Material was launched the following day. Rev Nndanganeni Ligege and Pastor Mike Roodt handing the Tshivenda literacy material to the children during the launch.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: