News - Date: 05 May 2018 Written by: Tracy Ngobeni / Viewed: 237 The mutilated body of Mr Khuliso Madida (30) of Tshaulu was found floating in the water of the nearby Luvuvhu River on Monday afternoon. Madida, a small-scale vegetable farmer in the area, left home on Saturday at around 11:00 after telling his mother that he was going to do his routine inspections at the garden. That was the last time the family saw him. Ms Mavis Mugwena, a family representative, said that Madida had left home after taking a hoe and some mealie meal that he was to cook in the field. “He was not educated, but he did not let this hinder his progress in life, and that is why he started farming as a way of earning a living.” Mugwena explained that Madida went to his small farm every day. On Saturday, he did not return at the usual time and his mother became worried. The mother waited until the next morning and then, accompanied by her other son, started searching the area next to the river. “What they found was only his trousers, the hoe and maize meal he was supposed to have cooked there,” said Mugwena. The younger brother whistled but received no response. They moved on to the other portion of the field but could not find him. What puzzled them was the fact that the gate to the small farm area was open. After failing to locate Madida, the mother alerted other members of the family and the community, who conducted a search at the river. The body was only spotted floating in the river on Monday. Surprisingly enough, the spot where the body was found had been searched before. Mugwena said that the body was found without the left leg and hand. The right arm of the deceased was broken, and the man’s intestines were hanging out. According to Mugwena, the family were told by the police that the deceased had been attacked by a crocodile. The family are, however, very sceptical and are not impressed with the way the police handled the issue. “The family members were denied entry to the mortuary when the body was examined. We wonder why they would not allow any member of the family to be inside, so that we could be satisfied as to what had happened to our beloved son. The way they are handling this case makes it seem that they are hiding something,” she said. Mugwena said that the family were not satisfied with the explanation that he had been eaten by a crocodile. “I have seen the body myself and there are so many unanswered questions. We need to see the post-mortem results. We are still in shock and will not rest until we find out what happened to our son,” said Mugwena. The SAPS’s Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed that a body was found in the Luvuvhu river without a leg and a hand. He stated that the police could not give a full report on the case because the investigations were still ongoing. The deceased: Khuliso Madida (30). The bereaved family of Khuliso Madida explain how the man was brutally killed.  Email: chabalalan98@gmail.com