News - Date: 10 May 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 3343 Residents of Madombidzha have apparently threatened to shut down all services and close roads in and around Sinthumule and Kutama on Friday (11th). The reason for the protest action is seemingly because residents are tired of being terrorised by criminals. They are pointing fingers at the police, claiming that they are doing nothing about crime. Schools and businesses in the area will be closed and no transport services will be allowed to operate, the organisers apparently warned. Workers were advised not to go to work and risk their lives. Residents appealed to the SAPS to maintain a policy of zero tolerance towards all crime. They said a lot of crimes had occurred in the area and in most cases the suspects were known by the community. Residents appealed to the police to work out a plan with time frames and to stipulate how the community can become involved in pro-active crime prevention. On social media and Whatsapp several messages have been doing the rounds since Thursday morning, warning motorists not to travel to the area. “Avoid the Louis Trichardt Vivo road (R522) at the Kutama junction, from this afternoon, till clarity about the safety of travellers on that road can be given,” the message reads that was circulated. The Makhado SAPS could not confirm that the shutdown will definitely take place, but all indications were that the protest action would start at 18:00 on Thursday. Some of the major bus services and even taxi operators have confirmed that they will not operate in the area on Friday.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za