News - Date: 21 May 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 181 An 82-year-old gogo, Mudzunga Makatu, who lives with her five grandchildren in a dilapidated house, had tears of joy when Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana donated food parcels for more than four months and promised to build them a three-roomed house soon. Gogo Makatu of Dzanani was very happy when the King presented her with the groceries during an event last Friday. Mphephu Ramabulana said he was told by a community of the misery the gogo was going through. “I went to the home, and what I saw was heart-breaking. I found a collapsed, one-roomed mud house and imagined the pain she was going through,” said Mphephu. “The little I can do to change people´s lives will give me peace of mind and I will continue doing this in as much as God wishes me to do,” he said. “As traditional leaders we have to take care of the poor,” he added. “We have big challenges of unemployment and poverty in our communities. Those who are blessed should share their blessings with the less fortunate and I appeal to local businesses to be of help to the community,” he said. Gogo Mudzunga Makatu thanked Mphephu and his royal council for the good work he was doing for the community. "I am a poor gogo and did not have any place to stay after my mud house collapsed many years ago. I thank Khosikhulu Mphephu from the bottom of my heart and wish God to give him many years to live,” she said. Gogo Mudzunga Makatu thanked Mphephu and his royal council for the good work he was doing for the community. Photographed during the ceremony are, from left to right, Mkahadzi Vho-Mavis Mphephu, Khotsimunene Vho-Japan Mphephu, Gogo Mudzunga Makatu with her grandchildren. They received food parcels from Khosikhulu Vho-Toni Mphephu Ramabulana and Khathutshelo Mamuwa looks on. The dilapidated house where Gogo Mufzunga Makatu stays with her five grandchildren.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za