News - Date: 07 May 2018 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 4344 A man who paid a surprise visit to his girlfriend in a neighbouring village ended up being the victim of a mob-justice-style murder. Six villagers are now facing murder charges. The 38-year-old Isaac Nemutamba from Mukovhawabele village near Mutale allegedly went to visit his girlfriend on Friday night, 20 April. The girlfriend stays in the nearby village of Tshivhongweni. When he arrived there, the woman allegedly did not want him to enter the house as she was with another man. From what could be established at this stage, an argument broke out, which later became violent. The woman called in the help of family members and neighbours and the group attacked Nemutamba. He was severely beaten and died on the scene. Limpopo police spokesperson Lt –Col Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed last week that six suspects had been arrested and were facing charges of murder. He could not confirm whether one of the suspects is the girlfriend of Nemutamba. The suspects are: Owen Netshivhongweni (35), Fhumulani Netshivhongweni (37), Edis Netshivhongweni, (45), Sedzani Mudanalwo (30), Gladys Netshipale (47) and Takalani Netshivhongweni (29). According to Ngoepe, all the suspects appeared in the Masisi Magistrate’s Court outside Musina last Thursday. The case was postponed until later this week, and all the suspects were remanded in custody without the option of getting bail. A spokesperson for the family of the deceased, Muzila Nemutamba, said the family members were devastated. “We are happy that the suspects have been arrested by the police and we are hoping the law will follow its course. We were surprised as family members, because it seems that the deceased was beaten, tied up with a rope and his clothes were burnt to ashes during the fight,” said Nemutamba. He said that when the family members went to the mortuary to identify Isaac Nemutamba, they found that the hands of the deceased still had the wires on that were used to tie him up. The local traditional leader of Mukovhawabale, Khosi Lingani Nethengwe, strongly condemned the act of taking the law into one’s own hands. He said if someone had done wrong in the community, he or she must be brought to the chief’s kraal without harming the person or beating them up. Khosi Nethengwe was also worried that the incident had left the community in his village in a state of anger. Apparently, some villagers have started blocking roads and disconnecting water pipes that deliver water to Tshivhongweni village. Distraught members of the Nemutamba family in the rural village of Mukovhawabale. The deceased, Isaac Nemutamba from Mukovhawabele village.  Email: