News - Date: 27 May 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 379 Meet Comet Mosena, the studious traffic cop from Musina who is a true example that hard work has never killed anybody. Mosena eats, sleeps, drinks and dreams books. Although some people struggle with one qualification, Mosena regards completing four qualifications simultaneously as a bread-and-butter affair. The smart cop has numerous higher education qualifications and he continues to study on a daily basis.  His latest qualification is a Baccalaureus of Technology degree in Road Traffic and Police Management from the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT). “I draw my inspiration from the quotation of the ancient Greek philosopher, Aristotle, who said that the roots of education are bitter, but the fruit is sweet. This quote is close to my heart and I recite it silently every time before I start writing my examinations.” said Mosena, who works as assistant superintendent of law enforcement at Musina Municipality’s traffic division. Mosena qualified as a traffic officer from the Limpopo Traffic College in 2008. “I started working for the Limpopo Provincial Traffic police in 2009 and joined the Musina Municipality in 2004. I realised that it was important for me to keep on studying, so that I could serve my people diligently. Besides that, an educated person applies his mind better and more easily, even in difficult situations. I pride myself on being one of the most successful traffic cops in terms of drunk-driving prosecution cases. They say it is very difficult to prove the evidence in the court, but I use my education to back up my cases.” Mosena started his long journey to wisdom when he completed his national certificate in criminal justice with the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) in 2000.  He registered for a three-year qualification in national road traffic and municipal policing with Lyceum College in 2015. The following year, he registered for a three-year national diploma in road traffic management with TUT, while studying for his baccalaureus in technology in road traffic and police management with the same institution.  On top of that, he was also doing a computer diploma at Mokobi Consulting in Musina. This means that he was studying for four qualifications at the same time. He passed all his qualifications with flying colours. He has currently submitted a proposal for a full dissertation for a master’s of commerce and transport economics degree with UNISA. His topic is: Human factors as the critical elements which lead to road traffic fatalities in the city of Polokwane in Limpopo. “After finishing my dissertation with UNISA, I will proceed to do my PhD in two years’ time,” he said happily. Mosena is funding his educational endeavours from his own pocket.  “My heartfelt gratitude goes to my wife, Nare, who sometimes realizes that I’m exhausted and drives me to Pretoria to attend my classes. Indeed, she is the pillar of my strength.” Mosena said his love of education did not fade, even in difficult situations. “My house and car caught fire in 2015 while I was busy preparing for my examinations. Two days later, I lost my brother and could not abandon my examinations. I had to drive to Cape Town to collect my brother’s body, come back to Musina and drive back to Pretoria to write my examinations. After the examinations, I had to come home to bury my brother. Despite that, I passed my examinations with flying colours.” His advice to colleagues and the youth is: “Education is the only source of wisdom. It is through education that we can build a great nation.” Comet Musina, the traffic cop who eats, drinks and dreams books.  Email: