News - Date: 19 May 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 541 The Netshilema family in Limpopo has been plunged into deep mourning, following the passing away of former educator Mr Takalani Nethilema. Netshilema (91) of Shayandima passed away in the early hours of Monday after being admitted to Intercare in Sandton, Gauteng. Born at Duthuni outside Thohoyandou in 1927, Netshilema started school at Goldville School, which he attended from 1934 to 1942. He passed his Std 8 at St Peters Secondary School in Johannesburg in 1946 and completed his teacher's training at Lemana Training Institute in 1948. He later did his Std 10 through private study. Through UNISA he obtained his BA degree in1960. According to Ms Zwivhuya Rashaka, who is the deceased's granddaughter, Netshilema fell ill in November last year. He had an illustrious career in education, where he served in the capacity of educator, principal and inspector of schools. In 1955, he assisted Khosi Vho-Ligege in establishing a primary school at Duthuni. Netshilema was also the author of a drama, Vhamusanda Vho Dzegere. Up until his death he remained a staunch member of the Anglican Church, for which he was a lay minister at the Shayandima branch. A memorial service in his honour will be held on Friday the 18th (today) at the St Michael and All Angels Church at Shayandima (Tsini na Atshani) at 16:00. The funeral service will be held at the same church on Saturday (tomorrow) at )7: 00. Netshilema was married to Naledzani Sarah Netshilema for 65 years and seven months and they were blessed with eight children. The children are Mbengeni, Tshilidzi, Masalanditshizwivhona, Azwihangwisi (deceased), Tanganedzani-Mulalo, Londolani (deceased), Phumudzo (deceased), and Rendani, as well as three adopted children, Khashane Muthivhi, Shiela Muthivhi and Madzanga Muthivhi. He was also blessed with 35 grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren. Former educator Mr Takalani Netshilema.   Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: