News - Date: 19 May 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 217 Chief Makwarela Makhuvha of Tshivhulani, under the Mphaphuli rule, invested where it matters most when he donated shoes to needy learners just as winter approaches. Makhuvha is one of a kind, who always come up with ways to better the lives of his subjects. During a visit to one of his primary schools and seeing learners coming to school barefoot, he promised he would come back with shoes for the needy learners. True to his word, the caring chief came back to Tshivhulani Primary School, where he handed over 46 pairs of shoes. The handover was witnessed by the school-governing body members, the local civic, school staff and royal council members. In handing over the shoes, Makhuvha said he was touched to see several learners coming to school barefoot and some with worn-out shoes. "I know what poverty is and that the only way to change this situation is through education. Education will remain the backbone for each economy, and we are staying at an underdeveloped village. These are the kids who will bring change here. Let's invest in them as they are our future," he said. He further promised cash incentives to the best performers in the different grades. School principal Mr Thomas Raliphaswa praised the chief for his good gesture. "We are very happy to have a leader like Chief Makhuvha, who knows the needy in his community. We have a problem here - many of our learners are so embarrassed that sometimes they stay away from school because they do not have uniforms. We are a school in need and we are appealing to other Good Samaritans and businesses to come on board and assist us in making a better learning environment for our kids," he said. The local civic leader, Ms Tshilidzi Tshivhenga, expressed her joy at the donation. "We are very happy that the donation came just on time for the cold winter weather. This will go a long way in improving the lives of our children, who will also perform well at school," she said. The donor, Chief Makwarela Makhuvha, the school principal, staff , community structures and happy kids after receiving the shoes. Chief  Makwarela Makhuvha (second from right), Mr Gerson Mahada of the Tshivhulani local council and principal Mr Mukondeleli Thomas Raliphaswa hand over the shoes during the event.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: