News - Date: 31 May 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 80 A group of residents from Tshikhwani are at loggerheads with the local chief, and a fortnight ago they marched to the Sinthumule Tribal Council at Tshiozwi to hand over a memorandum of their grievances. According to a member of the local civic organisation, Mr Muladelo Ndouvhada, they are unable to work together with the chief because of a number of problems. According to Ndouvhada, their discontent with Chief Mbulaheni Ramabulana started many years ago. He said that when the residents asked for proof of residency from the chief, the people who were part of the civic association had not received letters. “He shouted at us, saying that if we don’t want to be under his leadership, we could leave the village,” he said. Ndouvhada also accused Ramabulana of selling land to outsiders, without the civic association and the Sinthumule Tribal Council's consent. Ndouvhada further alleged that, before the chief had arrived, the practice of ordering a family to pay R500 to bury their loved ones at the local cemetery had been scrapped. He said the local cemetery was in good condition and residents were maintaining the site, hence they believed it was not necessary for them to pay the R500. Talking to Limpopo Mirror, Chief Ramabulana insisted that he was not the right person to respond to the accusations. “These questions should be directed to the senior members of the Sinthumule Tribal Council,” he said. The chairperson of the Sinthumule Tribal Council, Mr Makhado Sinthumule, said that they were aware of the protest march having taken place. He confirmed that they had received the memorandum of grievances and said that the council would look at it before handing it to Thovhele Vho-Rudzani Sinthumule. Residents picket outside the Sinthumule Tribal Council's office. Residents picket outside the Sinthumule Tribal Council's office. Muladelo Ndouvhada, leader of the group of protestors, watches as the chairperson of the Sinthumule Tribal Council, Makhado Sinthumule, accepts the memorandum with the list of grievances, with a police officer keeping a watchful eye.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za