News - Date: 27 May 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 47 The burning issue of reviving the Matangari self-help agricultural schemes came under the spotlight during the inauguration of the junior traditional leader (Vhakoma), Victor Muvhango, last week. The installation took place at Matangari Primary School. Muvhango has been tasked to lead Tshitakani, Mibomoni and Tshivhuyuni sub-villages under the watchful eye of senior traditional leader Khosi Vho-Mutulagole Mulindathavha Nyamande. Victor succeeds his father, Vhakoma Vho-Nndavheleni Muvhango, who passed away in 2011. Since then, the three sub-villages have been ruled by a family council, and after consultation with the relevant family members, it was agreed unanimously that Victor was ready to ascend the throne. When installing Victor, Khosi Nyamande said that his new royal name would be Vho-Thomaninganne. “By virtue of being my junior traditional leader, you should always act as my ears and eyes in this village. I am happy because some of the tasks that I personally do will now be allocated to you to help me in ruling this land of Matangari with ease. Your experience as a teacher and a renowned estate agent will assist you in making sound decisions that will advance our community’s development goals.” Nyamande urged the new junior traditional leader to respect his subjects and stay away from corrupt activities. “A good leader serves his subjects with distinction and never involves himself in corrupt activities. Treat all your subjects equally and serve them without discrimination. This will make your ancestors happy and your subjects will also respect you in return. Try to resolve all the petty issues with your council and only come to me to give reports and to elevate complex issues that you cannot resolve.” When accepting his new role, Vho-Thomaninganne agreed that he would follow in the footsteps of his late father. “I acknowledge the huge task ahead, but I’m ready to face it head-on.  I know that I am here to serve the interests of the people and mine will follow later. I commit to rule my subjects with fairness, and I will always consult my council and the family whenever I take decisions. I will work hard to bring more development to my three sub-villages.” Vho-Thomaninganne Victor Muvhango (left) was installed as the new junior traditional leader (Vhakoma) of Tshitakani, Mibomoni and Tshivhuyuni in Matangari by Khosi Vho-Mutulagole Mulindathavha Nyamande (middle). Also in the picture is Khosi Nyamade’s mutanuni (wife), Vho-Hazel Netshivhale Nyamande.  Email: