News - Date: 31 May 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 546 Soccer enthusiasts from across the province were shocked to learn of the death of Nnditsheni “Ballo” Musekwa (26), popular player of one of the teams competing in the ABC Motsepe league, Ablex United. Musekwa died last Wednesday after a short illness at the Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital. The family spokesperson, Mr Makhanda Musekwa, said the incident had left them with many questions unanswered. “It is very difficult to accept the death of a healthy child whom you last saw a few days earlier. We sometimes just feel it could not have happened to our child, but we know it was his day.” Musekwa said the family was heartbroken. “There are things that we as human beings cannot change. We all have to accept those things and go on with life,” he said. The deputy president of Safa Vhembe, Mr Joseph Maphaha, said that his association was deeply saddened by Musekwa’s death and he sent his condolences to the family. “News of this nature is heartbreaking and our thoughts are with the family and fellow team members,” Maphaha said. The head coach at Ablex FC, Mr Africa Monyeleote, said that Musekwa was always positive and told lots of jokes. “This is a huge shock and totally unexpected. We mourn his death.” He added that they had lost a young, energetic player who was enjoying football. “The whole team will have to undergo counselling,” he said. According to a team mate, Mpho Mavhandu, it will be difficult for the team to continue after the death of their star striker. “Every team that clashed with us in the past always had a problem containing Musekwa. Local soccer fanatics will remember him for his scoring skills, which made him an instant hero in the area,” he said. The manager of Ablex, Mr Benny Mufamadi, said the football family had lost one of its pillars who had always worked hard towards the development of soccer. Musekwa will be buried in the Tshikhwarani cemetery tomorrow (Saturday) and the service will start at 06:00. Nnditsheni "Ballo"Musekwa is no more.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za