News - Date: 12 May 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 131 Great joy, happiness and merriment  abounded when family members, friends and community members gathered at Madabani village on Saturday for the 100th birthday party of Makhulu Vho Muvhulawa Tshinangana. During the celebrations, the 100-year-old granny said that there were no hidden secrets to a healthy life and to seeing many more years here on Earth. It only requires a loving family and being surrounded by respectable, caring people. “Mbilu ya muthu kha i dzule yo takala tshifhinga tshothe (Let happiness rule in your heart at all times),” she said. “Extend your love to all people, including neighbours and total strangers. Even when people try to hurt you emotionally, just love them.” She added that eating the kind of food that people grew in their gardens was helpful in adding more years to one’s life. “Don't subtract from your years by consuming junk foods,” she said. “Also drink lots of clean water.” Tshinangana had three sons and a daughter, who had all unfortunately passed away already. She has eight grandchildren and eleven great-grandchildren. “But when I wake up in the morning and I see men and women rushing to work, and also see young children going to school, I just know they are all my children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren,” she said. She was born in the Mabogo family on 6 March 1918 at a place called Ha-Mubva, which is today known as Ha-Ravele. She got married into the Tshinangana family in 1941. One of her grandchildren, Ms Tendani Sengakana, described Tshinangana as a caring granny who took her grandchildren through university with her social grant. “She is selfless,” she said. “Although she had no money, she would always find a way not to let us down. She has become a mother and father to us. We love her, and we will always love and take care of her because she has loved and cared for us.” Makhulu Vho Muvhulawa Tshinangana (thirdt from left) cuts her birthday cake, assisted by her grandchildren. The grandchildren and great-grandchildren of Makhulu Vho Muvhulawa Tshinangana gathered to celebrate her 100th birthday at Madabani village. A dance group of youths, Diponapona Tsa Toyitoyi, also danced for Makhulu Vho Muvhulawa Tshinangana. A dance troupe, Vhana Vha Vho Milodzini, entertained the guests during Makhulu Vho Muvhulawa Tshinangana's 100th birthday party.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com