News - Date: 18 May 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 259 Legendary photojournalist Sam Nzima is no more. A freelance journalist for The World newspaper at the time, Nzima is known for taking the iconic picture of the dying Hector Pieterson being carried by Mbuyisa Makhabu, running alongside Pieterson’s sister, Antoinette Sithole, on 16 June 1976. Award-winning journalist and now communications manager of Musina Municipality Wilson Dzebu pays tribute to this world-acclaimed lens man. Dzebu writes in his personal capacity. “What is your name young man? I read through your mind and your powerful participation in the workshop discussions impressed me. You have the potential of becoming one of the best journalists in the country.” These were the words from the legend himself, Sam Nzima, when we met for the first time at Aventura Loskopdam, Mpumalanga in August 2006. This was during the Forum of Community Journalists (FCJ) workshop I attended while I was still a journalist for the Limpopo Mirror. We exchanged numbers and he used to call me at least twice a week to coach me on the ethics of journalism, news gathering and camera-handling skills. “Wilson, I just called to check how your journalism career is progressing. I read a lot of your stories on the Internet and your wordsmith skills are excellent. Keep the pen rolling, my boy,” he would say during our conversations. His encouraging words and weekly conversations rang on my mind every morning and I worked hard to achieve what my role model had prophesied. Indeed, his prophesy became a reality when, two years later, I was crowned the winner of the 2008 Sanlam National Press Awards in the hard news category. His motivation remained the corner stone of my journalism career and the foundation for the more than 30 awards that I won in my heydays at the Limpopo Mirror. The recipient of the National Order of Ikhamanga and a man of few words, Nzima was so humble that it was difficult to guess that he was an international icon if one did not ask. I still remember his words when he received an award from the then FCJ Chairperson, Karin Espag, during the workshop. He simply said: “I never imagined I would get such a huge honour from the media industry. The picture has been used worldwide, but I did not get special recognition. My success is the pride of all journalists and I am filled with gratitude, because I have been honoured by my own people while I am still alive.” I thought the news reader had made an honest mistake when the radio announced that Nzima, whom I regard as my source of inspiration, took his last breath in a Nelspruit hospital at the age of 83 last week. My ears were glued to the radio to make sure that I listened to the next news bulletin. To my disappointment, his passing made headlines again. I then came to terms that my role model is no indeed more. Nzima may be gone, but his inspiration lives on. It is sad that he passed on before finishing his photojournalism college in Mpumalanga where he wanted to transfer his knowledge to the youth. There is no doubt that he has joined the heavenly lens man’s major league of the likes of Alf Kumalo, Bob Gosani, Constance Larabee, Ernest Cole, Ken Oosterbroek, Kevin Carter and one of our own, Elijar Mushiana. I strongly believe that we still have many Sam Nzimas out there. All they need is proper photographic guidance, self-discovery and work hard to realize their potential. Sam Nzima, my final package to you comes from the book of John, chapter 14, verse 1 to 3. “Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God; trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am.” May your soul rest in perfect peace! Mr Sam Nzima (left) and Wilson Dzebu, photographed at an event of the Forum of Community Journalists in 2006.  Email: