News - Date: 05 May 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 487 A disabled young man, Mpho Mathabi, says being without hands should not be used as an excuse not to succeed in life. Mathabi (24) of Dididi outside Thohoyandou might have no hands, but despite this setback the young man is excelling in life and has become an inspiration even to able-bodied people. He has become a living embodiment that nothing is impossible in life. One only needs to be dedicated and put in hard work in whatever one does. For starters, Mr Mathabi can do most of the things that able-bodied people can do, such as writing, using a computer and also using a cell phone. This has humbled many who feel pity whenever they look at him. He has also started an organization, Vhumatshelo Hashu (Our Future), that seeks to empower the youth through interaction and empowerment sessions at schools. He has visited many schools in the Vhembe District and his latest project was a career guidance workshop that he hosted, where several local colleges were invited to come and speak to the youth. The function, which was a roaring success, was held at Tshilungoma recently. Mathabi explains that the organization was started to alleviate the frustrations faced by most rural youths who have no access to information, with many ending up not realizing their dreams. “I do not have hands, but my brain is not disabled and I lead a normal life like any other person. I can look after myself, do my school work, I can use a computer and even write using my feet,” he said. “My message to the youth is that they should stay focused and think positively,” said Mr Mathabi. He said his mission is being curtailed by a lack of resources and he appealed for any form of assistance so that they could be able to reach the four corners of the country. Mpho Mathabi shows his writing skills, using his foot.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: