News - Date: 28 May 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 405 Residents of Tshivhulani outside Sibasa are living in fear, following attacks by criminals in the village. About a week ago, two families fell victim to thugs who broke into their houses and stole cash and other valuables. This has left villagers in shock, not knowing who will be next to be attacked. In one incident at the village, an elderly woman had her house broken into and cash and cell phones were stolen during the robbery. One of her daughters was also raped during the incident. In another incident at the same village, a local woman lost more than R5 000 in cash and clothes when thugs broke into her house in the wee hours of the night. The criminals are believed to have gained entry to the house through a roof that was being renovated. A victim of the criminal activities in the area, Ms Mashudu Dzivhani, has suffered three previous attacks at her house and the police have never arrested anybody in connection with any of the crimes. She has lost many items during the break-ins. About the latest incident, Dzivhani said the unwelcome visitors came to her place in the early hours of Friday. She was busy renovating her roof and said the thugs left her high and dry this time around as they stole the money that was meant to pay the workers who were renovating her roof. "I am fed up with these thugs. For years they have been terrorising my family. No one has been arrested for the past three break-ins. I am tired and want a break," she said. Local traditional leader Chief Makwarela Makhuvha visited the family and condemned the incident in the strongest terms. "We are a peaceful community, but we are surprised by this outbreak of criminal activity in our village. This needs all of us to stand up and fight this demon together.” Local civic leader Ms Tshilidzi Tshivhenga said they were alarmed at the ever-increasing crime in their area. "This community is no longer safe. We will have a meeting where the whole village will come together and see what we can do to curb this spiralling crime," she said. Dzivhani did not open a case because the other cases have not been resolved. Limpopo police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe advised Dzivhani to go and lay charges at the nearest police station. He advised her to see the station commissioner if her complaint was not attended to.  Fed up , Ms Mashudu Dzivhani shows traditional leader Chief Makwarela Makhuvha the window the thugs used to gain entry into the house. The roof that was being renovated could have led the thugs into the room where the money was. Here Chief Makwarela Makhuvha is being shown around by house owner, Ms Mashudu Dzivhani.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: