News - Date: 25 May 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 499 Residents of Musina raised their concerns about service delivery in their area during a peaceful march that was held on Wednesday. They also presented a memorandum to a representative of the Musina Municipality at the Nancefield office. The memorandum was handed over by the residents' leader, Mr Thomas Ndou. In the memorandum, residents demand the “immediate scrapping of all our debts, normalisation of water and electricity bills,” and they also demand the creation of jobs. He said that the mayor had to see how the matter could be resolved before the community acted. “We are tired of the empty promises from the Musina Municipality. We need our people to get services like other villages under the municipality, where the residents are not paying for water and electricity," he said. Ndou added that they believed that their demands should be addressed "in order to avoid rolling protest marches, until our demands are taken seriously.” He threatened that if the municipality did not commit itself, it "will face the full might of all residents". A resident, who wants to remain anonymous, also alleges that they are unable to access RDP houses in the townships because they are being occupied by foreign nationals. The spokesperson of the Musina Municipality, Mr Wilson Dzebu, said that they had received the memorandum and would respond in seven working days. Cllr Khakhathi Khunwana signs the memorandum. The residents' leader, Mr Thomas Ndou, adresses the residents. Residents display their placards during the handing over of the memorandum.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za