News - Date: 14 May 2018 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 170 A brave little five-year-old girl from Dopeni in Nzhelele is showing everyone what the human spirit can achieve. In spite of losing her leg in an accident, she is back at school, determined to let her cheerful light shine on all those around her. Masindi Zwoluga Mudau was involved in a terrible accident on 20 March this year. She was walking along the road with two of her siblings and her grandmother, on their way to visit their great grandmother. A taxi apparently overtook another taxi and swerved off the road, hitting the little girl. Masindi was rushed to Polokwane hospital, but the doctors had no other option than to amputate her left leg. She was later transferred to Siloam hospital where she recovered. She was discharged on 30 April. Khuliso Deborah Mulaudzi, Masindi’s mother, said last week that the family members found it very difficult to cope with the situation. “As a mother I am trying to be strong and accept the situation, but I can see that her siblings are struggling to accept the situation, because they witnessed the whole incident,” she said. “Her brother doesn’t want to go anywhere near roads or get inside cars, because of what he saw happening to his sister.” Mulaudzi reckoned that the young girl as well as the other family members would need counselling to help them cope with the trauma. Thus far no-one has offered counselling to any of them. “It pains me, because Masindi doesn’t understand what is happening. Sometimes she cries and says that she wants her leg back. At least if she was counselled she might understand what is happening,” Mulaudzi added. Masindi is a Grade R learner at Mutuwafethu Primary school in Dopeni. The school principal, Mrs Thifhulufhelwi Catherine Tshiovhe, described Masindi as a bright and brave little girl. “In her I see the future of South Africa. She is like a light on a mountain that will shine light on the country,” she said. “I remember when I visited her in hospital and I asked her if she was going to come back to school in her wheelchair. She said ‘No! I will come (back) walking’. To my surprise, on Monday she came to school walking with her crutches.” Anyone who feels that they can help the little girl with counselling can contact the author of this article at Maandabele@gmail.com.  Deborah Mulaudzi and her daughter, Masindi Mudau, during a visit at the hospital. Masindi Mudau, after spending two months in hospital, went back to school last Monday (30 April) using crutches.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, is currently  a third year journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He joined the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com