News - Date: 06 May 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 187 Mourners from around the province and further afield gathered at the Tambani family residence on Saturday to pay their last respects to the well-known elderly community builder and ANC member, Kutama Mugagadeli Tambani (107) of Tshiozwi. Tambani died on 17 of April after a long illness at the Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital. She was the mother of ANC activist Sam Tambani, who was shot dead in Johannesburg in the 1990s. Gogo Tambani herself was an active member of the ANC and the founder of the Phalaphala FM fan club. The former Minister of Safety and Security, Sydney Mufamadi, said that the gogo, having been a soldier for the bigger part of her adult life, epitomised the best that came from the movement. “She was one of those women who fought for development in the prime of her life and excelled at everything she did. She will be remembered for her dedication and commitment to the movement of our people, as ruling party member and also for her vision and tenacity as veteran organisation member.” “Her passing will undoubtedly leave a void too difficult to fill, not only in the family, but also in our leadership structures,” he said. Mufamadi said that although the family, friends and community at large accepted what had happened, it would be difficult to forget that this death had robbed the community of an energetic leader who had been full of zeal and courage. A family representative, Cllr Elisa Tambani, told the mourners that the family had accepted the loss although it was difficult to cope with it. “We understand and accept that gogo is gone, but it will be very difficult for us to live without her. It is also important to acknowledge the community’s support since we received the bad news. God has done his will and there is nothing we can do, because the situation is irreversible,” she said. Makhado Mayor Shonisani Sinyosi said when the history of the struggle for the freedom and emancipation of the people of South Africa, and in particular blacks, was finally written, the name of Tambani would be mentioned. She expressed her condolences to the family of Tambani. ANC Women's League members carry the coffin of the late Kutama Tambani. Former minister Sydney Mufamadi with other mourners.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za