News - Date: 26 October 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 459 Gogo Florah Masakona Munyai will cherish the year 2018 for the rest of her life.

This was because her prayers to live in a decent house were answered by when Afribiz Invest Pty Ltd recently donated a two-room house to her.

Gogo Munyai (67) from Ha-Mamuhoi in Nzhelele was living in a mud house built in 1988. Unfortunately, she lost her eyesight in 2004 and has since survived through government grants.

She was extremely excited when the keys were handed over to her. "I wish my eyes could open just to see you, not the house. I'm very happy that Afribiz changed my life."

Afribiz’s executive chairman, Mr Collen Mashawana, said they were invited to assist in improving her living conditions after community leaders learnt about her heartbreaking living conditions. "We visited her in August and committed to build her a new home. We will also make sure that she will get a borehole, which will serve the community, which doesn't have access to water. The biggest reason for the donation was to change her living conditions and restore her dignity," he added.

He applauded Cllr Irene Masidiri for her commitment towards changing the lives of the people of Nzhelele. "The steps she took to bring Munyai's living conditions to our attention have demonstrated to us that she is more than just a community leader. She is a person who genuinely cares for the poor and we are proud to be the company that responded to her request. May she continue to be the voice of the disadvantaged in the communities," he said. Mr Collen Mashawana (left) gives the keys to Gogo Munyai (middle), while Jossey Butane (provincial chairman of EFF) looks on. The new house built by Afribiz Invest Pty Ltd.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: