News - Date: 21 October 2018 Written by: Mbulaheni Ridovhona / Viewed: 233 The mayor of the Makhado Local Municipality, Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi, officially opened the Musekwa Satellite Library during a readathon campaign at the Musekwa Thusong Service Centre last Friday. 

She said the municipality was proud to host the readathon campaign, which formed part of a national and global effort to promote the culture of reading and enjoying books at home, at school and in the community. "The campaign reminds all of us of the need to eradicate illiteracy, thus contributing to the fight against poverty and inequality. We need to spread awareness of the importance of literacy in building an economically vibrant nation," she added 

She stressed that the country desperately needs graduates with higher-order literacy skills, capable of engagement across the world as global citizens. "We must encourage the establishment of reading clubs, book clubs, and the supply of books to children and families, so that we create an environment in which children can grow and flourish to meet the challenges of the future," she said.

She thanked Guyo Bookshop, who sponsored books for the library. "We need more businesses to learn from Guyo Bookshop for their commitment in promoting a culture of reading and learning in our communities," she said. The learners were encouraged to use the library effectively to increase their ability toreflect on their own collective and self-development critically . 

The learners were in joyful mood because they will no longer travel long distances to access the library at Louis Trichardt.  Local traditional leader Chief Hendrick Musekwa thanked the municipality for prioritising education and urged the learners to produce good results. Mayor Shonisani Sinyosi officially opens the Musekwa Satellite Library.  The 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students' newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.  Email: