News - Date: 20 October 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 437 The mystery of the Tshitavha ritual murder case deepened last Friday, when the seven accused in the case were set free because of a lack of evidence. The deceased, Ms Mercy Ndou (33), was mercilessly butchered for ritual purposes in 2014. She left her home in Shayandima, promising to come back to help the family to move their belongings as they were moving to Maniini. She was never seen alive again. Her dismembered body was found in nearby bushes at Tshitavha by a passer-by. Police investigations led to the arrest of well-known traditional healer Vusiwana Baloyi. During his trial, Baloyi had mentioned the names of the people he had worked with, but the suspects were not apprehended until about two years later. Baloyi has since been sentenced in 2015 by the Thohoyandou High Court to life in prison for the murder of Mercy Ndou. The other seven appeared in court several times and applied for bail, which was denied in the Makuya Periodical Court. The seven accused are Gerson Mathoho (52), a former police captain, Shonisani Muruge (52), Azwinndini Ndou (42), Khuthadzo Tshidino (28), Eric Khobo (30) and Rhulani Shirindi (43). The last to be arrested was Lufuno Ramashia (38). Last Friday, all seven the accused could not believe their ears when they were told they were free and that their case was being withdrawn because of a lack of evidence. Surprisingly, the case was withdrawn in the absence of the deceased's family members at the Makuya Periodical Court, after the family members were summoned to the Thohoyandou High Court. The move was met with mixed reactions. The deceased's family are saying they “are smelling a rat and that money could have exchanged hands to squash the charges. The justice system has failed us big time. There is no justice in this country”. “We are not happy at all at the turn of events. We had hoped that all the accused would be afforded an opportunity to answer for themselves in a court of law, but that had not happened. We are not going to take this matter lying down as it is now. We will knock on all doors up to the minister if needs be for relief," said Rev Jabulane Monegi, the deceased’s family spokesperson. Monegi said they became suspicious when they received a call on Wednesday that they had to be at the High Court in Thohoyandou on Friday. He said their suspicions were further compounded after hearing that the suspects were being released the same Friday at Makuya. “They should rest assured that their freedom is short-lived, as we will not rest until all who had a part in the killing of our daughter are behind bars. The accused were denied bail by the court and now are they sending a message and doubts about the competency of the Makuya Periodical Court," said Monegi. Meanwhile, it was a weekend of feasting and celebrations for the freed suspects. The six accused during a previous appearance in the Thohoyandou Magistrate's Court are, from left to right, Gerson Mathoho, Eric Khobo, Rhulani Shirindi, Shonisani Muruge, Khuthadzo Tshidino and Azwinndini Ndou. The deceased, Ms Mercy Ndou (33). Traditional healer Vusiwana Baloyi - serving life imprisonment for the murder of Mercy Ndou. Rev Jabulane Monegi, the deceased’s family spokesperson.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: