News - Date: 13 October 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 294 Ms Tendani Nesongozwi of Tshikuwi in the Nzhelele area should count herself very lucky. Not many have the opportunity to touch their intestines and live to tell the tale. The 38-year-old mother of three was recently attacked and stabbed all over her body, leaving her with her intestines hanging outside her stomach. How she survived is still a mystery. The woman, who survives on piece jobs, has scars all over her body that she will carry for the rest of her life. Her husband, Langanani Bulala, has since been arrested. He appeared in the Dzanani Magistrate’s Court last Tuesday. The case was postponed to Thursday, 11 October for a formal bail application. Outside court, a group of women under the banner of the ANCWL were protesting the possible granting of bail to the suspect. "We are tired of these useless men who, instead of taking care of their families, abuse them and go as far as killing their spouses. We are here to send a message that the court should not grant him bail,” one of the women said. “This abuse and attacks on women should come to an end, and as women we will fight to the bitter end to see that all women are safe at their homes." She said they had organized a meeting with all the relevant stakeholders to discuss the incident at Mbulaheni Secondary School to be held this week but were disappointed that the justice department told them they would not be part of the meeting. Cllr Mbulaheni Magada of Ward 21 of the Makhado Municipality said as responsible men they were opposed to any form of abuse perpetrated against women and children. Lucky to be alive. Ms Tendani Nesongozwi says she will feel insecure if her husband is released on bail. Women who protested outside court at Dzanani.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: