News - Date: 15 October 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 687 The residents of Tshikota in Ward 7 of the Makhado Local Municipality will soon enjoy the benefits of having a leisure park. This comes after the ANC's Ward 7 branch had noticed a huge space that had grown wild with alien trees and other bushes and decided to turn the space into a park. “The area had been turned into a dumping site,” said the branch's secretary, Mr Collins Sebola. “It was very smelly and posed health hazards to community members living in the vicinity of the site. It did not look like a park and was bushy and dark, to the extent that it posed a danger to young ones who played nearby or used a thin footpath that ran along the site.” As part of the thuma-mina (a call for community work voluntarism), the branch committee and local volunteers came together and cleared the park. A TLB was also hired to assist in clearing and removing unwanted debris that had been dumped there. “When all the work of the day had been done, volunteers raised common ideas about fencing off the area, putting up floodlights and drilling a borehole,” he said. “We aim to develop this space into a recreational facility where children and the youth can come and hang out.” More than 40 volunteers had participated in this thuma-mina project and the deputy secretary of the ANC's sub-region, Ms Tebogo Mamorobela, lauded the branch for the good work they were doing in the ward. “We want to express appreciation for what Ward 7 is doing because this kind of voluntarism is only done and achieved through the little that the members or volunteers fork out of their own pockets to bring about change and development in the communities,” she said. When she noticed the cleared-out space, an elderly resident, Ms Agnes Makgato, said that she was relieved from worrying because of the wilderness that had grown right in the centre of the area. “We are really happy to see that here among us we've got young people who care for us and our health,” she said. “A bad environment full of litter is a cause of many diseases.” Some of the volunteers who participated in the thuma-mina project of making a leisure park in Tshikota.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com