News - Date: 27 October 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 155 Three schools representing the Vhembe District performed exceptionally well during the recent annual Funda Mzantsi Developing Creative Championship held at George in the Western Cape.

The 50 learners from Ozias Davhana Secondary School, Elim High School and Muthuhadini Combined School participated in Xitsonga and Tshivenda, debate, reading and book reviews. Ozias Davhana High won the competition and received first places in the spelling bee, Tshivenda reading and debate. Muthuhadini Combined won the Tshivenda book review, came second in reading and second in the Xitsonga book review. Elim won the Xitsonga reading, spelling bee and debate. The competition was organised as a partnership between the Departments of Arts and Culture and Correctional Services. The Funda Mzantsi championship is an initiative spearheaded by the Centre for the Book, an outreach unit of the National Library of South Africa. The centre is responsible for promoting reading, writing and publishing in all local languages and ensuring access to books. According to the Ozias Davhana educator, Ms Khakhu Muthelo, the competition aims to encourage young people to address key issues around reading, debate and book reviews. The team of Ozias Davhana High won the competition and also received first places in the spelling bee, Tshivenda reading and debate. Elim won the Xitsonga reading, spelling bee and debate. Muthuhadini Combined won the Tshivenda book review, came second in reading and second in the Xitsonga book review.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za