News - Date: 26 October 2018 Written by: Tshifhiwa Mukwevho / Viewed: 236 Residents in at least two villages in the Sinthumule area will soon have electricity switched on in their homes, after Eskom handed over an electrification project of 368 new houses to a contractor. During the project handover, which was recently held at a community gathering (khoroni) at Madombidzha village, Eskom's communications officer in Vhembe, Mr Shadrack Munyangane, said that they had allocated electricity connection to 76 houses in Madombidzha Zone 1, 65 for Tshiozwi and 227 for Madombidzha Zone 4. “We urge community members to co-operate with the electricity construction workers and stay away from interfering with their work, so that they work in peace and finish their work on time,” Munyangane said. “The project is handled by S&R Reticulation, who agreed to finish the project in the space of nine weeks.” A resident of Madombidzha Zone 4, Ms Livhuwani Khodobo, said she had always experienced problems when she wanted to browse the Internet on her phone because her phone’s battery was always flat, and she could not charge it since she had to walk several kilometres to get it charged at a friend's place. Another resident, Ms Matodzi Mulaudzi said that they had been without electricity for years. One of their solutions to this challenge was to put their meat in the fridges of people who had electricity in their houses on the other side of the village.  An official from Eskom, Mr Kenny Timbane (left), hands the site map to the director of S&R Reticulation, Ms Veronica Dwarika, while Cllr Mavhimbi Mashamba (Ward 23) and others look on. Some community members, community leaders and officials from Eskom who attended the electricity project's handover last Friday.  Tshifhiwa Given Mukwevho was born in 1984 in Madombidzha village, not far from Louis Trichardt in the Limpopo Province. After submitting articles for roughly a year for Limpopo Mirror's youth supplement, Makoya, he started writing for the main newspaper. He is a prolific writer who published his first book, titled A Traumatic Revenge in 2011. It focusses on life on the street and how to survive amidst poverty. His second book titled The Violent Gestures of Life was published in 2014.  Email: givenmukwevho@yahoo.com