News - Date: 13 October 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 1961 A former journalism intern at the Limpopo Mirror, Andani Matumba (29), was recently admitted as an advocate by the Pretoria High Court. Matumba, who had always dreamed of becoming a fashion designer, was born at Ravele Village in the Sinthumule area. She started her primary education at Maguluvhe Primary and went to Sinthumule high and Murunwa Private School. After completing her matric, Matumba furthered her studies at Tswane University of Technology, enrolling for a degree in journalism. She explains that she had never imagined ending up amidst the legal fraternity. From a young age she had always wanted to be a fashion designer. As a girl she kept herself busy sketching fashion designs and making clothes for her dolls. “After completing my matric, my dreams changed,” she says. Her mother was not keen on her venturing into fashion studies. “I then had to choose the second-best career, which was closest to my heart and that was journalism.” Andani enrolled as a journalism student at the Tshwane University of Technology from 2008 till 2010 and obtained her National Diploma in Journalism. “I remember job hunting in 2010, because I had to complete my internship before I could be awarded my national diploma. In June that year I took a leap of faith, packed my bags and headed home. I had no plan whatsoever and I was becoming depressed, seeing my classmates getting internships and even job offers. Fortunately enough I tried my luck at the Limpopo Mirror's offices where I was granted an internship. Under the mentorship and supervision of Anton van Zyl, I then discovered a deep love of investigative journalism, caring for people, being the voice to the voiceless and being a human rights advocate,” she says. Andani would travel to places she had never been before in the depth of Limpopo, just to tell people’s stories. “During my journey, I realized that there was just so much injustice in the world and our people are less informed on how the law works and the type of recourse at their disposal.  That was when I applied and was admitted to study for my first year of LLB at Univen. If I have to say so myself, I was an exceptional student, but unfortunately I only studied one year of LLB at Univen and relocated back to Pretoria to find work.” “I then decided to also register for a B.Tech in Journalism at TUT,” Andani says. She did a few odd jobs at small companies while studying, but managed to graduate in 2013. In June 2013, she was employed at the office of the Presidency. She then decided to register at Unisa to complete an LLB degree. “The thought of completing my LLB Degree was always a priority and I studied day and night. I took my books with me to work and even studied during lunchtime. Luckily, I had a very supportive boss (Mr Vuso Shabala) who pushed me beyond my limits. He helped me reach my full potential, to be an independent thinker and be well equipped for the real world. I could not afford to disappoint myself, to disappoint him and to disappoint my family.” In April 2018, Andani lost her job, following the resignation of former president Jacob Zuma. She was part of his office and had to go. “So many lives were affected and so many people lost their jobs. Fortunately, I had something to console me, which no one can ever take away from me, which is my level of education and my love for learning, doing research, growing and getting out of my comfort zone,” she says. She finished her LLB degree in June 2017 at UNISA and she applied without hesitation to continue studying for a master's degree in corporate law. “I then applied to be admitted as an advocate of the High Court in April 2018 and was subsequently admitted in July 2018. I specialize in corporate law, media law, patents and copyright, environmental law and law of trademarks. I am still trying to establish myself as counsel and it has not been easy,” she says. According to Andani, she wants to set an example to both her friends and young people of the Vhembe District that being born into a poor family should not limit one´s dreams and ambitions. “Things were difficult when I was growing up back in the village. I always told myself that I would realize my dream one day, and here I am now,” says Andani. Andani has her eyes set on having her own law firm and ultimately becoming a High Court and Constitutional Court judge. The jubilant new advocate, Andani Matumba. Andani Matumba (29) was recently admitted as an advocate.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za