News - Date: 28 October 2018 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 279 Residents of Masia under the leadership of development-orientated traditional leader Thovhele Nthumeni Masia and their neighbours stand to benefit a lot socio-economically. This follows the recent establishment of the Masia Development Agency, an initiative of Thovhele Masia and some of his subjects. The agency is aimed at becoming a driver to fast-track development by the traditional council that will implement all development projects across all spheres, such as education, sports, economic development, agriculture and environmental affairs, among others. “I am delighted by the overwhelming response this initiative is getting from the community and private partners. This is a much-needed cause if we are serious about creating opportunities, developing infrastructure and bringing economic activity in our area. Our area will be used as practical example of how rural development could be achieved,” said Thovhele Nthumeni Masia He also mentioned that the traditional council had partnered with University of Venda’s Institute for Rural Development to create a development roadmap that would guide the agency on what projects were essential to the development of the community. He further indicated that the community had been consulted to find out what their actual most vital needs were. Mr Thato Mahosi, the secretary of the agency, said he was humbled to be serving his community under Thovhele Masia's leadership.  “I am working with a very supportive and united team and already we have two main projects which we are implementing, the Masia Mathematics and Science Academy for both primary and secondary school learners. It will be housed at the Masia Primary School, which was left vacant and unused after local two primary schools merged.” He said various private partners had come on board to renovate the school and provide various facilities such as science and computer laboratories and that the centre would be free to use, and would provide extra classes, homework assistance, career advice, university-readiness programmes and visual learning. The centre is set to be launched on 9 November. Another project that has already kicked off is the Masia Multi-Purpose Centre, a state-of-the-art facility, which was provided by the Department of Rural Development. It has an amphitheatre, main library, children’s library, computer laboratories, trading space for small businesses and office space. The amphitheatre is available for events and the office space is available for rent by both private organisations and the government. “Infrastructure and services will now be easily accessible to the people," said Mahosi. Thovhele Masia called on other private and public partners to be part of their great journey towards rural development.  Thovhele Nthumeni Mmbangiseni Masia.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper's readers.  Email: