News - Date: 20 October 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 863 Why struggle by looking for a job when you can create one for yourself? This is a simple question from Tshidivhano Mulondo, one of the four Mulondo brothers of Tswera village, near Sambandou, who have teamed up to fight the scourge of unemployment successfully. The brothers wake up every morning and ascend the local mountain to dig for stones that are used for paving, building houses and walls. Tshidivhano says the brothers started with their initiative 10 years ago. “We struggled to get jobs and we needed money. We then realized that our local mountain is rich with the precious stones and we grasped the opportunity with both hands. Even though we don’t have modern equipment, we used shovels, spades, hammers and chisels to get the stones from the earth.” He says after getting the stones from the earth, they chisel them accordingly to take an attractive form. “We take them raw from the earth and work hard to transform them. One needs excellent skills to make the stones attractive.  Although it takes longer because of the lack of modern equipment, we never give up because this is where our daily bread comes from.” However, Tshidivhano warns that working with stones is not easy. “One has to be physically fit to do this job. Stones are very heavy, and you must have the power and courage to continue working. After unearthing and giving them the attractive form, we carry them from the mountain to display them by the roadside to attract customers. We don’t have protective clothing and we often injure ourselves in the line of duty. This does not deter us from working because the stones are our only source of income.” He says business sometimes becomes slow, especially during the rainy season. "Most people do not undertake building projects when it rains, and this has a negative impact on our business. Despite all the challenges, we keep on working hard to provide our families.” According to Moses Mulondo, the job is hard, but it brings something to their pockets. “We plead with Good Samaritans to assist us with modern equipment and protective clothing, so that we can work with ease.” Those who want to assist the Mulondo brothers with business tips, to donate protective clothing and equipment or to order stones can call Tshidivhano at 071 520 8882 or Moses at 072 547 1560. The Mulondo brothers, photographed at the local mountain while displaying some of the stones that are ready for sale. They are, from left to right, Moses, Tsiko, Tshidivhano, Lutendo and Murunwa Nekhubvi, who is also part of the initiative.  Email: