News - Date: 22 October 2018 Written by:  / Viewed: 1020 “My work as municipal manager is very demanding. Sometimes I don’t sleep at all - just to make sure that things are moving according to the expectations of the municipal council. Despite all this, I still must take care of my family and meet my personal needs as an individual.” These are the words of Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi, the municipal manager of Musina Municipality. He recently received a master’s degree in public management from the University of Venda. He said that because of the changing world, one needed to create time to study. “I used to shuffle between all those roles while, at the same time, working hard to acquire my next qualification.” Tshiwanammbi is a graduate from the universities of Venda, Pretoria and the Witwatersrand. He also completed various short courses from recognized educational institutions around the country. He said he was happy to set an example to his subordinates at work that it was important to improve one’s qualifications. “During our staff meetings, I always tell workers at Musina Municipality that they must take education seriously. I’m happy that I have set a very good example that it is possible to succeed despite the work and personal demands that we come across daily. Education gives us knowledge of the world around us and changes it into something better. When you read more, you are more likely to succeed in your job than the person who does not study.” He said leadership in public institutions needed people who had both practical and academic experience. “Education improves your reasoning capacity and it becomes easier for you to address work-related or personal challenges. I will never stop studying, until I take my last breath here on earth.” Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlope congratulated Tshiwanammbi on his achievement. “Given his academic record and hard work, we are assured that the municipality is in good hands. We hope his achievement will encourage our staff members to study hard.” Before becoming the municipal manager at Musina, Tshiwanammbi was the general manager for economic development and planning at the same institution. He also served as acting municipal manager from December 2016 to September 2017. Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi.  Email: