News - Date: 29 October 2018 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 946 A former director of engineering services of the Makhado Municipality, Dr Masindi Mapholi, recently received his PhD degree in social science with public management and governance from the North West University. Mapholi hails from the rural village of Ha- Mutsha. He started his education at the Mangwele Primary School and finished matric at the Dimani Agricultural School. He enrolled with DET for a diploma in civil engineering secondary training teachers (STD Civil Engineering) and later also received a national higher diploma (NHD) with the then Technikon SA in 1999. He furthered his studies at what used to be RAU, where he obtained his municipal governance diploma in 2004 . He continued with his studies and earned his certificate in project management and executive leadership municipal development programme with the University of Pretoria. Then he registered with Oxbridge, a private college (TVET) and passed his diploma in local government with distinction. He also registered with Northwest University (Potchefstroom Campus) in 2009, where he eventually received a master’s degree in development and management in 2011. He also finished an MBA with a private college (Azaliah School of Business Entrepreneurship ASBE). Professionally, he is registered with Project Management South Africa and is also a full member of the Water Institute of South Africa (WISA). He also earned credit points with Civil Engineering South Africa and will register as a professional candidate engineer. Mapholi has served four municipalities, namely Makhado Local Municipality, Lephalale, Maquassi Hills and Madibeng, in different capacities. He is currently employed as a senior manager at DWS head office, where he works on the planning of water services for South Africa. Mapholi expressed his appreciation to his family for the support regarding his achievements. "Growing up in a disadvantaged family background was not easy, but I am happy that I made it," he said.     Dr Masindi Mapholi.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za